doc/diagnostics/action-summary-spec.md, before:

# C64 Commander – Action Summary Specification

## 1. Purpose and Scope

This document defines **Action Summaries**, a derived, presentation-oriented view of the existing tracing system.

Action Summaries provide a concise, human-readable representation of application behavior by collapsing each **Action Trace** (one `correlationId`) into a single summarized entry.

This specification is strictly additive and **does not modify**:

- Trace emission
- Trace schemas
- Trace tests or golden traces
- Tracing semantics or lifecycle

Action Summaries are a **projection**, not a source of truth.

---

## 2. Relationship to Tracing Specification

This specification depends on and is aligned with [C64 Commander – Tracing Specification](./tracing-spec.md).

Key relationships:

| Tracing Concept   | Action Summary Concept     |
| ----------------- | -------------------------- |
| Trace Event       | Input only                 |
| Action Trace      | One-to-one source          |
| Correlation ID    | Primary key                |
| Origin            | Collapsed for presentation |
| REST / FTP events | Rendered as effects        |

---

## 3. Terminology

- **Action Summary**  
  A derived, condensed representation of a single Action Trace, produced by aggregating all trace events sharing the same `correlationId`.

- **Effect**  
  A summarized representation of an external interaction (REST or FTP) caused by an Action Trace.

- **Origin**
  A presentation-level classification of action drivers: `user` or `system`.

---

## 4. Derivation Model

### 4.1 Grouping Rule

All trace events are grouped by:

```text
correlationId
```

Each group yields **at most one** Action Summary.

No Action Summary may span multiple correlation IDs.

---

### 4.2 Required Source Events

For a complete Action Summary, the following events MUST exist:

- `action-start`
- `action-end`

If either is missing, the Action Summary MUST be marked as **incomplete**.

---

## 5. Action Origin

### 5.1 Trace-Level Origin

Action Traces define:

```text
origin ∈ { user | automatic | system }
```

This value is preserved in raw traces.

---

### 5.2 Summary-Level Origin Mapping

For Action Summaries, origins are collapsed as follows:

```text
user   ← origin == user
system ← origin == automatic or system
```

This mapping is presentation-only.

The original origin MAY be retained as auxiliary metadata.

---

## 6. Effects

### 6.1 Supported Effect Types

```text
EffectType ∈ { rest, ftp }
```

Effects are derived solely from trace events within the same `correlationId`.

---

### 6.2 REST Effect Derivation

A REST Effect exists if the correlation contains a `rest-request`.

Derived fields:

- Method: `rest-request.data.method`
- Path: `rest-request.data.normalizedUrl`
- Target: `rest-request.data.target`
- Status:
  - `rest-response.data.status` if present
  - otherwise derived from `action-end.status`
- Duration:
  - `rest-response.data.durationMs` if present
- Error:
  - `rest-response.data.error` or `action-end.data.error`

Each REST request produces exactly one REST Effect.

---

### 6.3 FTP Effect Derivation

A FTP Effect exists if the correlation contains a `ftp-operation`.

Derived fields:

- Operation: `ftp-operation.data.operation`
- Path: `ftp-operation.data.path`
- Target: `ftp-operation.data.target`
- Result: `ftp-operation.data.result`
- Error: `ftp-operation.data.error`

REST-to-FTP proxying and native indirection MUST NOT be exposed.

---

## 7. Action Summary Data Model

Conceptual structure:

```text
ActionSummary {
  correlationId

  actionName
  origin               // user | system
  originalOrigin       // optional: user | automatic | system (only if different from origin)

  startTimestamp
  endTimestamp
  durationMs           // required; wall-clock elapsed time from action start to last effect completion
  durationMsMissing    // required only when durationMs is not calculable

  outcome              // success | error | blocked | timeout | incomplete
  errorMessage         // optional (omitted if null)

  restCount            // optional (omitted if 0)
  ftpCount             // optional (omitted if 0)
  errorCount           // optional (omitted if 0)

  effects: Effect[]    // optional (omitted if empty)
}
```

```text
Effect {
  type                 // rest | ftp
  label
  target
  durationMs           // optional
  status               // protocol-specific
  error                // optional (omitted if null)
}
```

---

## 8. Outcome Classification

The Action Summary outcome is derived from `action-end.data.status`:

| action-end.status | Action Summary Outcome |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- |
| success           | success                |
| error             | error                  |
| blocked           | blocked                |
| timeout           | timeout                |
| missing           | incomplete             |

---

## 9. Ordering Rules

Action Summaries MUST be ordered by:

1. `startTimestamp`
2. `correlationId` (tie-breaker)

Ordering MUST be deterministic.

---

## 9.1 Duration Derivation (Normative)

`durationMs` is **required** for every Action Summary.

It MUST represent **wall-clock elapsed time** from the **action start** to the **last effect completion** (or timeout) triggered by that action.
It MUST NOT be the sum of effect durations, since effects can overlap.

Derive as follows:

1. `startTimestamp`: timestamp of `action-start`.
2. `completionTimestamp`: the latest timestamp among effect completion events within the same `correlationId`:
  - REST: `rest-response.timestamp`
  - FTP: `ftp-operation.timestamp`
3. If no effect completion exists, fall back to `action-end.timestamp`.

If a valid wall-clock duration cannot be calculated (missing timestamps or invalid ordering), then:

- `durationMs` MUST be `null`
- `durationMsMissing` MUST be `true`

If `durationMs` is present, `durationMsMissing` MUST be omitted.

---

## 10. UI Integration (Normative)

### 10.1 Navigation

The diagnostics UI MUST expose Action Summaries under a tab labeled:

```text
Actions
```

Example:

```text
Errors | Logs | Traces | Actions
```

---

### 10.2 Visual Encoding

#### Row-level (by Origin)

| Origin | Visual Style       |
| ------ | ------------------ |
| user   | Green              |
| system | Blue               |

#### Effect-level Indicators

| Effect Type | Color  |
| ----------- | ------ |
| rest        | Green  |
| ftp         | Yellow |

---

## 11. Error Visibility

- Errors MUST be visible at the Action Summary level.
- Protocol-specific errors MAY be repeated at the Effect level.
- Internal routing, guards, and backend-decision events MUST NOT be shown.

---

## 12. Compatibility Guarantees

Action Summaries:

- Do not alter tracing behavior
- Do not affect Playwright helpers
- Do not participate in golden trace comparison
- Require no schema or storage changes

They are a pure, deterministic projection of existing traces.

---

## 13. Non-Goals

- Replacing Trace Events or Action Traces
- Introducing new trace semantics
- Cross-action aggregation
- Heuristic inference of intent
- Distributed tracing
- Analytics or metrics aggregation

---

## 14. Summary

Action Summaries provide a concise, human-oriented representation of Action Traces while preserving the tracing system as the single semantic source of truth.

They improve debuggability and cognitive clarity without compromising determinism, testability, or architectural integrity.

Commit message:

Improved trace- and action-related tests

doc/diagnostics/action-summary-spec.md, after:

# C64 Commander – Action Summary Specification

## 1. Purpose and Scope

This document defines **Action Summaries**, a derived, presentation-oriented view of the existing tracing system.

Action Summaries provide a concise, human-readable representation of application behavior by collapsing each **Action Trace** (one `correlationId`) into a single summarized entry.

This specification is strictly additive and **does not modify**:

- Trace emission
- Trace schemas
- Trace tests or golden traces
- Tracing semantics or lifecycle

Action Summaries are a **projection**, not a source of truth.

---

## 2. Relationship to Tracing Specification

This specification depends on and is aligned with [C64 Commander – Tracing Specification](./tracing-spec.md).

Key relationships:

| Tracing Concept   | Action Summary Concept     |
| ----------------- | -------------------------- |
| Trace Event       | Input only                 |
| Action Trace      | One-to-one source          |
| Correlation ID    | Primary key                |
| Origin            | Collapsed for presentation |
| REST / FTP events | Rendered as effects        |

---

## 3. Terminology

- **Action Summary**  
  A derived, condensed representation of a single Action Trace, produced by aggregating all trace events sharing the same `correlationId`.

- **Effect**  
  A summarized representation of an external interaction (REST or FTP) caused by an Action Trace.

- **Origin**
  A presentation-level classification of action drivers: `user` or `system`.

---

## 4. Derivation Model

### 4.1 Grouping Rule

All trace events are grouped by:

```text
correlationId
```

Each group yields **at most one** Action Summary.

No Action Summary may span multiple correlation IDs.

---

### 4.2 Grouping Depends on Tracing Correctness

Action Summaries are a **pure projection** of trace data. They apply **no post-processing, heuristics, or cleanup logic** to compensate for incorrect tracing.

**Normative clarifications:**

1. **No correlation merging**  
   Action Summaries MUST NOT merge events from different `correlationId` values, even if they appear semantically related.

2. **No heuristic grouping**  
   Action Summaries MUST NOT apply timing-based or name-based heuristics to group events that have distinct `correlationId` values.

3. **No deduplication**  
   If tracing emits duplicate Action Traces for the same user interaction, Action Summaries will faithfully reflect those duplicates. The fix belongs in the tracing layer, not in Action Summary derivation.

4. **Effect grouping is guaranteed by tracing**  
   Correct grouping of user actions with their effects (REST/FTP operations) is the responsibility of the tracing system. Action Summaries rely strictly on `correlationId` boundaries defined by tracing.

5. **Diagnostic value**  
   If an Action Summary shows a user action separated from its effects (effects appearing as separate system-origin summaries), this indicates either:
   - An intentional async pattern where effects run after the user action completes, or
   - A tracing bug that must be fixed at the source.

---

### 4.3 Required Source Events

For a complete Action Summary, the following events MUST exist:

- `action-start`
- `action-end`

If either is missing, the Action Summary MUST be marked as **incomplete**.

---

## 5. Action Origin

### 5.1 Trace-Level Origin

Action Traces define:

```text
origin ∈ { user | automatic | system }
```

This value is preserved in raw traces.

---

### 5.2 Summary-Level Origin Mapping

For Action Summaries, origins are collapsed as follows:

```text
user   ← origin == user
system ← origin == automatic or system
```

This mapping is presentation-only.

The original origin MAY be retained as auxiliary metadata.

---

## 6. Effects

### 6.1 Supported Effect Types

```text
EffectType ∈ { rest, ftp }
```

Effects are derived solely from trace events within the same `correlationId`.

---

### 6.2 REST Effect Derivation

A REST Effect exists if the correlation contains a `rest-request`.

Derived fields:

- Method: `rest-request.data.method`
- Path: `rest-request.data.normalizedUrl`
- Target: `rest-request.data.target`
- Status:
  - `rest-response.data.status` if present
  - otherwise derived from `action-end.status`
- Duration:
  - `rest-response.data.durationMs` if present
- Error:
  - `rest-response.data.error` or `action-end.data.error`

Each REST request produces exactly one REST Effect.

---

### 6.3 FTP Effect Derivation

A FTP Effect exists if the correlation contains a `ftp-operation`.

Derived fields:

- Operation: `ftp-operation.data.operation`
- Path: `ftp-operation.data.path`
- Target: `ftp-operation.data.target`
- Result: `ftp-operation.data.result`
- Error: `ftp-operation.data.error`

REST-to-FTP proxying and native indirection MUST NOT be exposed.

---

## 7. Action Summary Data Model

Conceptual structure:

```text
ActionSummary {
  correlationId

  actionName
  origin               // user | system
  originalOrigin       // optional: user | automatic | system (only if different from origin)

  startTimestamp
  endTimestamp
  durationMs           // required; wall-clock elapsed time from action start to last effect completion
  durationMsMissing    // required only when durationMs is not calculable

  outcome              // success | error | blocked | timeout | incomplete
  errorMessage         // optional (omitted if null)

  restCount            // optional (omitted if 0)
  ftpCount             // optional (omitted if 0)
  errorCount           // optional (omitted if 0)

  effects: Effect[]    // optional (omitted if empty)
}
```

```text
Effect {
  type                 // rest | ftp
  label
  target
  durationMs           // optional
  status               // protocol-specific
  error                // optional (omitted if null)
}
```

---

## 8. Outcome Classification

The Action Summary outcome is derived from `action-end.data.status`:

| action-end.status | Action Summary Outcome |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- |
| success           | success                |
| error             | error                  |
| blocked           | blocked                |
| timeout           | timeout                |
| missing           | incomplete             |

---

## 9. Ordering Rules

Action Summaries MUST be ordered by:

1. `startTimestamp`
2. `correlationId` (tie-breaker)

Ordering MUST be deterministic.

---

## 9.1 Duration Derivation (Normative)

`durationMs` is **required** for every Action Summary.

It MUST represent **wall-clock elapsed time** from the **action start** to the **last effect completion** (or timeout) triggered by that action.
It MUST NOT be the sum of effect durations, since effects can overlap.

Derive as follows:

1. `startTimestamp`: timestamp of `action-start`.
2. `completionTimestamp`: the latest timestamp among effect completion events within the same `correlationId`:
  - REST: `rest-response.timestamp`
  - FTP: `ftp-operation.timestamp`
3. If no effect completion exists, fall back to `action-end.timestamp`.

If a valid wall-clock duration cannot be calculated (missing timestamps or invalid ordering), then:

- `durationMs` MUST be `null`
- `durationMsMissing` MUST be `true`

If `durationMs` is present, `durationMsMissing` MUST be omitted.

---

## 10. UI Integration (Normative)

### 10.1 Navigation

The diagnostics UI MUST expose Action Summaries under a tab labeled:

```text
Actions
```

Example:

```text
Errors | Logs | Traces | Actions
```

---

### 10.2 Visual Encoding

#### Row-level (by Origin)

| Origin | Visual Style       |
| ------ | ------------------ |
| user   | Green              |
| system | Blue               |

#### Effect-level Indicators

| Effect Type | Color  |
| ----------- | ------ |
| rest        | Green  |
| ftp         | Yellow |

---

## 11. Error Visibility

- Errors MUST be visible at the Action Summary level.
- Protocol-specific errors MAY be repeated at the Effect level.
- Internal routing, guards, and backend-decision events MUST NOT be shown.

---

## 12. Compatibility Guarantees

Action Summaries:

- Do not alter tracing behavior
- Do not affect Playwright helpers
- Do not participate in golden trace comparison
- Require no schema or storage changes

They are a pure, deterministic projection of existing traces.

---

## 13. Non-Goals

- Replacing Trace Events or Action Traces
- Introducing new trace semantics
- Cross-action aggregation
- Heuristic inference of intent
- Distributed tracing
- Analytics or metrics aggregation

---

## 14. Summary

Action Summaries provide a concise, human-oriented representation of Action Traces while preserving the tracing system as the single semantic source of truth.

They improve debuggability and cognitive clarity without compromising determinism, testability, or architectural integrity.
