README.md, before:

# C64 Commander

[![Build](https://github.com/chrisgleissner/c64commander/actions/workflows/android-apk.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/chrisgleissner/c64commander/actions/workflows/android-apk.yaml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/chrisgleissner/c64commander/graph/badge.svg?token=hGEe09SZch)](https://codecov.io/gh/chrisgleissner/c64commander)
[![License: GPL v2](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPL%20v2-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.en.html)

Control your Commodore 64 Ultimate from your Android device.

<img src="./docs/play-store/feature-graphic-1024x500.png" alt="C64 Commander Logo" width="600"/>

> [!NOTE]
> This project is under active development. Some features are still being finalised.

C64 Commander is an Android app that connects to a C64 Ultimate on your local network:

- **Configuration**: View and adjust the full C64 Ultimate configuration.
- **Control**: Operate the C64 and its disk drives from a mobile-friendly interface.
- **Playback**: Browse and play music, programs, and disk images from local storage or via the C64 Ultimate, with playlist and automatic playback support.
- **Disks**: Work with disks and disk collections, including mounting, unmounting, and multi-disk workflows.
- **Collections**: Browse and play the HVSC music library via your C64 Ultimate.
- **Diagnostics**: Inspect device state and use diagnostic tools for troubleshooting.

## Screenshots

### Home

Track device status at a glance, control the machine and drives, and access quick configuration actions.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/00-overview-light.png" alt="Home overview (Light)" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/01-overview-dark.png" alt="Home overview (Dark)" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/sections/03-quick-config.png" alt="Home quick config" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/sections/04-drives.png" alt="Home drives" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/sections/06-sid.png" alt="Home SID" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/sections/07-streams.png" alt="Home streams" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Play

Control SID playback, adjust playback settings, manage playlists, select SID subsongs, and explore HVSC playback modes.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/play/01-overview.png" alt="Play overview" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/play/sections/02-playlist.png" alt="Play playlist" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/play/sections/03-hvsc-library.png" alt="Play HVSC library" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Disks

Monitor drive status, mount images, and browse your disk collections.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/disks/01-overview.png" alt="Disks overview" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/disks/collection/01-view-all.png" alt="Disks collection" width="360"/></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Configuration

Browse configuration categories, tune audio and SID settings, and edit drive-specific options.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/config/01-categories.png" alt="Configuration categories" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/config/sections/05-u64-specific-settings.png" alt="Configuration U64 specific" width="360"/></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Settings

Adjust appearance, connections, diagnostics, playback defaults, HVSC library access, and device safety.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/01-appearance.png" alt="Settings appearance" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/02-connection.png" alt="Settings connection" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/03-diagnostics.png" alt="Settings diagnostics" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/04-play-and-disk.png" alt="Settings play and disk" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/05-config.png" alt="Settings configuration" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/06-hvsc-library.png" alt="Settings HVSC library" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Docs

Read in-app documentation, getting started guides, and per-page walkthroughs with external references.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/docs/01-overview.png" alt="Docs overview" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/docs/sections/01-getting-started.png" alt="Docs getting started" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/docs/sections/05-swapping-disks.png" alt="Docs swapping disks" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Diagnostics

Trigger diagnostic actions, inspect traces, review logs, and triage errors.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/diagnostics/01-actions-expanded.png" alt="Diagnostics actions" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/diagnostics/02-traces-expanded.png" alt="Diagnostics traces" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/diagnostics/03-logs.png" alt="Diagnostics logs" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

Full screenshot set lives under [doc/img/app/](doc/img/app/).

## Install the APK on your Android phone

1. Download the APK from the latest GitHub release (`c64commander-<version>.apk` for normal installs; use `c64commander-<version>-debug.apk` only if you need a debug build).
2. Open the downloaded file on your phone (Files app or notification).
3. If prompted, allow installs from unknown sources for the browser or files app.
4. Tap Install to finish.

## Device safety settings

C64 Commander includes a configurable device safety system to reduce REST and FTP load.
You can find these controls in Settings → Device Safety.

- **Safety mode presets**: Relaxed, Balanced (default), and Conservative.
- **Advanced controls**: REST and FTP concurrency, read coalescing windows, cooldowns, backoff strategy, circuit breaker thresholds, and discovery probe interval.
- **Warning**: Lower safety settings can overwhelm the device. Use relaxed settings only if you understand the risks.

## Developer documentation

For build instructions, testing, and contribution guidelines, see [doc/developer.md](doc/developer.md).

Fuzz testing is documented in [doc/testing/chaos-fuzz.md](doc/testing/chaos-fuzz.md).

Commit message:

feat: Add FTP client functionality and folder picker plugin
- Implemented FTP client with capabilities to list directories and read files.
- Created a folder picker plugin for selecting directories and files.
- Added native diagnostics logging for better error tracking.
- Introduced secure storage plugin for managing sensitive data.
- Added Info.plist and Podfile for iOS project configuration.
- Created Main.storyboard for initial app UI setup.

README.md, after:

# C64 Commander

[![Build](https://github.com/chrisgleissner/c64commander/actions/workflows/android-apk.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/chrisgleissner/c64commander/actions/workflows/android-apk.yaml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/chrisgleissner/c64commander/graph/badge.svg?token=hGEe09SZch)](https://codecov.io/gh/chrisgleissner/c64commander)
[![License: GPL v2](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPL%20v2-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.en.html)

Control your Commodore 64 Ultimate from your Android device.

<img src="./docs/play-store/feature-graphic-1024x500.png" alt="C64 Commander Logo" width="600"/>

> [!NOTE]
> This project is under active development. Some features are still being finalised.

C64 Commander is an Android app that connects to a C64 Ultimate on your local network:

- **Configuration**: View and adjust the full C64 Ultimate configuration.
- **Control**: Operate the C64 and its disk drives from a mobile-friendly interface.
- **Playback**: Browse and play music, programs, and disk images from local storage or via the C64 Ultimate, with playlist and automatic playback support.
- **Disks**: Work with disks and disk collections, including mounting, unmounting, and multi-disk workflows.
- **Collections**: Browse and play the HVSC music library via your C64 Ultimate.
- **Diagnostics**: Inspect device state and use diagnostic tools for troubleshooting.

## Screenshots

### Home

Track device status at a glance, control the machine and drives, and access quick configuration actions.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/00-overview-light.png" alt="Home overview (Light)" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/01-overview-dark.png" alt="Home overview (Dark)" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/sections/03-quick-config.png" alt="Home quick config" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/sections/04-drives.png" alt="Home drives" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/sections/06-sid.png" alt="Home SID" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/home/sections/07-streams.png" alt="Home streams" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Play

Control SID playback, adjust playback settings, manage playlists, select SID subsongs, and explore HVSC playback modes.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/play/01-overview.png" alt="Play overview" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/play/sections/02-playlist.png" alt="Play playlist" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/play/sections/03-hvsc-library.png" alt="Play HVSC library" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Disks

Monitor drive status, mount images, and browse your disk collections.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/disks/01-overview.png" alt="Disks overview" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/disks/collection/01-view-all.png" alt="Disks collection" width="360"/></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Configuration

Browse configuration categories, tune audio and SID settings, and edit drive-specific options.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/config/01-categories.png" alt="Configuration categories" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/config/sections/05-u64-specific-settings.png" alt="Configuration U64 specific" width="360"/></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Settings

Adjust appearance, connections, diagnostics, playback defaults, HVSC library access, and device safety.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/01-appearance.png" alt="Settings appearance" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/02-connection.png" alt="Settings connection" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/03-diagnostics.png" alt="Settings diagnostics" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/04-play-and-disk.png" alt="Settings play and disk" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/05-config.png" alt="Settings configuration" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/settings/sections/06-hvsc-library.png" alt="Settings HVSC library" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Docs

Read in-app documentation, getting started guides, and per-page walkthroughs with external references.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/docs/01-overview.png" alt="Docs overview" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/docs/sections/01-getting-started.png" alt="Docs getting started" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/docs/sections/05-swapping-disks.png" alt="Docs swapping disks" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Diagnostics

Trigger diagnostic actions, inspect traces, review logs, and triage errors.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/diagnostics/01-actions-expanded.png" alt="Diagnostics actions" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/diagnostics/02-traces-expanded.png" alt="Diagnostics traces" width="360"/></td>
    <td><img src="doc/img/app/diagnostics/03-logs.png" alt="Diagnostics logs" width="360"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

Full screenshot set lives under [doc/img/app/](doc/img/app/).

## Install the APK on your Android phone

1. Download the APK from the latest GitHub release (`c64commander-<version>.apk` for normal installs; use `c64commander-<version>-debug.apk` only if you need a debug build).
2. Open the downloaded file on your phone (Files app or notification).
3. If prompted, allow installs from unknown sources for the browser or files app.
4. Tap Install to finish.

## Device safety settings

C64 Commander includes a configurable device safety system to reduce REST and FTP load.
You can find these controls in Settings → Device Safety.

- **Safety mode presets**: Relaxed, Balanced (default), and Conservative.
- **Advanced controls**: REST and FTP concurrency, read coalescing windows, cooldowns, backoff strategy, circuit breaker thresholds, and discovery probe interval.
- **Warning**: Lower safety settings can overwhelm the device. Use relaxed settings only if you understand the risks.

## Developer documentation

For build instructions, testing, and contribution guidelines, see [doc/developer.md](doc/developer.md).

iOS CI/bootstrap helpers:

- `npm run cap:add:ios` to generate the iOS platform.
- `npm run cap:sync:ios` to sync web/native assets for iOS.
- `npm run ios:build:sim` to build the simulator app on macOS.
- `npm run ios:build:device` to build a device-targeted app on macOS.
- GitHub iOS simulator CI is defined in [.github/workflows/ios-ci.yaml](.github/workflows/ios-ci.yaml).

Fuzz testing is documented in [doc/testing/chaos-fuzz.md](doc/testing/chaos-fuzz.md).
