doc/testing/chaos-fuzz.md, before:

# Fuzz Testing (Playwright)

This document describes the platform-agnostic chaos/fuzz runner built on Playwright. It is designed to run identically in local and CI contexts, and to emit compact, LLM-ready issue summaries.

## Architecture overview

- **Runner**: [playwright/fuzz/chaosRunner.fuzz.ts](../../playwright/fuzz/chaosRunner.fuzz.ts)
- **Launcher**: [scripts/run-fuzz.mjs](../../scripts/run-fuzz.mjs)
- **Artifacts**: `test-results/fuzz/run-<runMode>-<platform>-<seed>-<runId>/`
- **App contract**: [src/lib/fuzz/fuzzMode.ts](../../src/lib/fuzz/fuzzMode.ts)

The runner executes a series of **fuzz sessions**. Each session starts from a clean app state, records a Playwright video, performs weighted UI actions, and **terminates immediately** on the first detected issue or unrecoverable stall. The session is reset and a new session begins until the run reaches its step or time budget.

## Fuzz mode contract (app-side)

Fuzz mode is enabled by setting:

- `localStorage.c64u_fuzz_mode_enabled = "1"`
- `localStorage.c64u_fuzz_mock_base_url = "http://127.0.0.1:<port>"` (from the Playwright mock server)
- `localStorage.c64u_fuzz_storage_seeded = "1"` (prevents app-side storage reset from wiping seeded fixtures)

When fuzz mode is active:

- **Mock device enforced**: `discoverConnection()` forces demo mode and uses the forced mock base URL.
- **Real device blocked**: REST requests are rejected unless the base URL is local or the forced mock URL.
- **Storage reset**: fuzz defaults clear storage, then set deterministic debug + demo settings.
- **Structured logs**: errors/warnings are persisted via the logging layer and surfaced to the runner.

## Action model & weighting

Actions are finite, weighted, and preconditioned. No random pixel clicks.

- `click` (weight 28): visible buttons/links
- `add-items-*`: dialog-aware add-to-playlist/library flows (C64 Ultimate source, folder open, selection, confirm)
- `tab` (10): navigation bar buttons
- `scroll` (12)
- `select` (6): list/menu options
- `type` (8): text inputs (includes large paste bursts)
- `toggle` (6): switches/checkboxes
- `modal` (6): open/close dialog
- `navigate` (4): back/forward
- `background` (4): background/resume simulation
- `fault` (3): mock-device fault injection

Every interaction is logged as a single compact line in `sessions/<sessionId>.log`.

## Severity classification

The runner classifies issues into:

- `crash`: page crash or unhandled exception
- `freeze`: action/navigation timeout or unresponsive UI
- `errorLog`: app/console error-level log
- `warnLog`: app/console warning-level log

Detection sources include Playwright page crashes, navigation/action timeouts, console output, and structured app logs.

## Fail-fast session model

On **any** issue:

1. Capture screenshot.
2. Capture route + title (if available).
3. Capture last N interactions (default 50).
4. Close the session video and keep it.
5. Terminate the session immediately.
6. Reset mock server state and start a new clean session.

This prevents error compounding across corrupted states.

## Video capture semantics

Each session records a Playwright video:

- Recording begins at clean launch.
- Stops on issue or session completion.
- Videos are kept for failing sessions, plus the last N successful sessions (default 10).
- Video filenames are deterministic and tied to issue group + session ID for failures.

## Issue grouping strategy

Issues are grouped by a **root-cause signature** composed of:

- Exception type
- Normalized message
- Top 3–5 stack frames

Platform and interaction traces are secondary metadata only.

## Reports (LLM-ready)

Every run emits:

- `fuzz-issue-report.json` (grouped, compact, machine-readable)
- `fuzz-issue-summary.md` (short human summary)

Both are designed to be pasted directly into an LLM prompt.

### LLM usage

Paste `fuzz-issue-summary.md` first, then attach `fuzz-issue-report.json` for structured details. Ask the LLM to propose fixes per issue group ID, using the top frame and last interaction trace for context.

## Reproducing issues

Use the same seed and platform, then re-run:

- Local: `./build --fuzz --fuzz-seed <seed>`
- Script: `node scripts/run-fuzz.mjs --fuzz-seed <seed>`

If no seed is provided, the runner uses the current epoch milliseconds. Each shard uses baseSeed + shardIndex.
If no time budget is provided, the runner defaults to 30 minutes.

## Concurrency

The fuzz runner supports concurrent shards. Each shard uses a unique Playwright port, then results are merged into a single consolidated artifact folder.

- Default: number of physical CPU cores (best-effort; falls back to logical cores when unavailable)
- Override: `--fuzz-concurrency <n>` or `FUZZ_CONCURRENCY=<n>`

Example:

- `node scripts/run-fuzz.mjs --fuzz-time-budget 15m --fuzz-concurrency 4`

The interaction logs and last-N traces in the issue report provide the step index where the failure occurred.

## Session length controls

Each session runs for at least **200 steps** by default. It will end early if no meaningful progress is detected for a configurable number of consecutive steps. A separate **progress watchdog** triggers structured recovery when progress stalls for too long.

- `FUZZ_MIN_SESSION_STEPS` (default: 200)
- `FUZZ_NO_PROGRESS_STEPS` (default: 20)
- `FUZZ_PROGRESS_TIMEOUT_MS` (default: 5000)

Interaction progress signals are explicitly defined as:

- Screen change (route/title/primary headings)
- Navigation stack change (history state)
- State machine transition (device + playback state)

Event trace deltas are still captured for diagnostics, but they do not reset stall counters by themselves.

When the watchdog fires, the runner switches to **structured recovery** (fills required inputs, confirms dialogs, acknowledges prompts) and returns to chaos once interaction progress resumes. If recovery is exhausted, the runner records a freeze issue, captures screenshot/video, closes the session, and starts a fresh one.

### Consolidated artifacts

For sharded runs, a merged folder is created at:

`test-results/fuzz/run-<runMode>-<platform>-<seed>-<runId>/`

It contains:

- `sessions/` (merged session logs)
- `videos/` (merged videos)
- `fuzz-issue-summary.md` (merged summary)
- `README.md` (merged summary)
- `fuzz-issue-report.json` (merged report)

Failing sessions are always retained. By default, the **last 10 successful sessions** are also kept.

- `FUZZ_RETAIN_SUCCESS` (default: 10; set to 0 to keep only failures)

Per-shard folders are removed after merging so the run output stays consolidated.

## Safety guarantees

- Always mock-device only.
- Deterministic seed-based randomness.
- No random pixel clicks.
- Recover-and-continue after each failure.
- Bounded artifact output.

Commit message:

feat: Enhance fuzz testing with timeout safeguards and improved connection discovery
- Added multiple timeout safeguards to the fuzz runner to prevent indefinite hangs, including action, session, and progress timeouts.
- Implemented a manual discovery probe that transitions from demo to real connection upon success.
- Updated connection manager to handle manual discovery and added corresponding unit tests.
- Refactored fuzz testing code for better readability and maintainability, including timeout handling and error logging.
- Improved error handling in HVSC download process to log warnings on cancellation and release failures.
- Updated TypeScript configuration for better compatibility with Playwright.

doc/testing/chaos-fuzz.md, after:

# Fuzz Testing (Playwright)

This document describes the platform-agnostic chaos/fuzz runner built on Playwright. It is designed to run identically in local and CI contexts, and to emit compact, LLM-ready issue summaries.

## Architecture overview

- **Runner**: [playwright/fuzz/chaosRunner.fuzz.ts](../../playwright/fuzz/chaosRunner.fuzz.ts)
- **Launcher**: [scripts/run-fuzz.mjs](../../scripts/run-fuzz.mjs)
- **Artifacts**: `test-results/fuzz/run-<runMode>-<platform>-<seed>-<runId>/`
- **App contract**: [src/lib/fuzz/fuzzMode.ts](../../src/lib/fuzz/fuzzMode.ts)

The runner executes a series of **fuzz sessions**. Each session starts from a clean app state, records a Playwright video, performs weighted UI actions, and **terminates immediately** on the first detected issue or unrecoverable stall. The session is reset and a new session begins until the run reaches its step or time budget.

## Timeout safeguards

The fuzz runner has multiple layers of timeout protection to prevent "no progress" situations:

1. **Action timeout** (default: 30s): Each action is wrapped with a hard timeout. If an action doesn't complete within this time, it's terminated and recorded as a freeze issue.

2. **Session timeout** (default: 5 minutes): Each session has a maximum duration. If a session runs longer than this, it's terminated and a new session starts.

3. **Progress watchdog** (default: 5s): If no meaningful progress is detected within this time, the runner switches to recovery mode.

4. **Backend backoff cap** (max: 5s): Backend failure backoff waits are capped to prevent indefinite waiting.

5. **CI job timeout** (hard limit: 2 hours): The GitHub workflow has a hard timeout that terminates the entire job.

These safeguards ensure the test never hangs indefinitely and always makes progress or terminates gracefully.

## Fuzz mode contract (app-side)

Fuzz mode is enabled by setting:

- `localStorage.c64u_fuzz_mode_enabled = "1"`
- `localStorage.c64u_fuzz_mock_base_url = "http://127.0.0.1:<port>"` (from the Playwright mock server)
- `localStorage.c64u_fuzz_storage_seeded = "1"` (prevents app-side storage reset from wiping seeded fixtures)

When fuzz mode is active:

- **Mock device enforced**: `discoverConnection()` forces demo mode and uses the forced mock base URL.
- **Real device blocked**: REST requests are rejected unless the base URL is local or the forced mock URL.
- **Storage reset**: fuzz defaults clear storage, then set deterministic debug + demo settings.
- **Structured logs**: errors/warnings are persisted via the logging layer and surfaced to the runner.

## Action model & weighting

Actions are finite, weighted, and preconditioned. No random pixel clicks.

- `click` (weight 28): visible buttons/links
- `add-items-*`: dialog-aware add-to-playlist/library flows (C64 Ultimate source, folder open, selection, confirm)
- `tab` (10): navigation bar buttons
- `scroll` (12)
- `select` (6): list/menu options
- `type` (8): text inputs (includes large paste bursts)
- `toggle` (6): switches/checkboxes
- `modal` (6): open/close dialog
- `navigate` (4): back/forward
- `background` (4): background/resume simulation
- `fault` (3): mock-device fault injection

Every interaction is logged as a single compact line in `sessions/<sessionId>.log`.

## Severity classification

The runner classifies issues into:

- `crash`: page crash or unhandled exception
- `freeze`: action/navigation timeout or unresponsive UI
- `errorLog`: app/console error-level log
- `warnLog`: app/console warning-level log

Detection sources include Playwright page crashes, navigation/action timeouts, console output, and structured app logs.

## Fail-fast session model

On **any** issue:

1. Capture screenshot.
2. Capture route + title (if available).
3. Capture last N interactions (default 50).
4. Close the session video and keep it.
5. Terminate the session immediately.
6. Reset mock server state and start a new clean session.

This prevents error compounding across corrupted states.

## Video capture semantics

Each session records a Playwright video:

- Recording begins at clean launch.
- Stops on issue or session completion.
- Videos are kept for failing sessions, plus the last N successful sessions (default 10).
- Video filenames are deterministic and tied to issue group + session ID for failures.

## Issue grouping strategy

Issues are grouped by a **root-cause signature** composed of:

- Exception type
- Normalized message
- Top 3–5 stack frames

Platform and interaction traces are secondary metadata only.

## Reports (LLM-ready)

Every run emits:

- `fuzz-issue-report.json` (grouped, compact, machine-readable)
- `fuzz-issue-summary.md` (short human summary)

Both are designed to be pasted directly into an LLM prompt.

### LLM usage

Paste `fuzz-issue-summary.md` first, then attach `fuzz-issue-report.json` for structured details. Ask the LLM to propose fixes per issue group ID, using the top frame and last interaction trace for context.

## Reproducing issues

Use the same seed and platform, then re-run:

- Local: `./build --fuzz --fuzz-seed <seed>`
- Script: `node scripts/run-fuzz.mjs --fuzz-seed <seed>`

If no seed is provided, the runner uses the current epoch milliseconds. Each shard uses baseSeed + shardIndex.
If no time budget is provided, the runner defaults to 30 minutes.

## Concurrency

The fuzz runner supports concurrent shards. Each shard uses a unique Playwright port, then results are merged into a single consolidated artifact folder.

- Default: number of physical CPU cores (best-effort; falls back to logical cores when unavailable)
- Override: `--fuzz-concurrency <n>` or `FUZZ_CONCURRENCY=<n>`

Example:

- `node scripts/run-fuzz.mjs --fuzz-time-budget 15m --fuzz-concurrency 4`

The interaction logs and last-N traces in the issue report provide the step index where the failure occurred.

## Session length controls

Each session runs for at least **200 steps** by default. It will end early if no meaningful progress is detected for a configurable number of consecutive steps. A separate **progress watchdog** triggers structured recovery when progress stalls for too long.

- `FUZZ_MIN_SESSION_STEPS` (default: 200)
- `FUZZ_NO_PROGRESS_STEPS` (default: 20)
- `FUZZ_PROGRESS_TIMEOUT_MS` (default: 5000)

Interaction progress signals are explicitly defined as:

- Screen change (route/title/primary headings)
- Navigation stack change (history state)
- State machine transition (device + playback state)

Event trace deltas are still captured for diagnostics, but they do not reset stall counters by themselves.

When the watchdog fires, the runner switches to **structured recovery** (fills required inputs, confirms dialogs, acknowledges prompts) and returns to chaos once interaction progress resumes. If recovery is exhausted, the runner records a freeze issue, captures screenshot/video, closes the session, and starts a fresh one.

### Consolidated artifacts

For sharded runs, a merged folder is created at:

`test-results/fuzz/run-<runMode>-<platform>-<seed>-<runId>/`

It contains:

- `sessions/` (merged session logs)
- `videos/` (merged videos)
- `fuzz-issue-summary.md` (merged summary)
- `README.md` (merged summary)
- `fuzz-issue-report.json` (merged report)

Failing sessions are always retained. By default, the **last 10 successful sessions** are also kept.

- `FUZZ_RETAIN_SUCCESS` (default: 10; set to 0 to keep only failures)

Per-shard folders are removed after merging so the run output stays consolidated.

## Safety guarantees

- Always mock-device only.
- Deterministic seed-based randomness.
- No random pixel clicks.
- Recover-and-continue after each failure.
- Bounded artifact output.
