doc/developer.md, before:

# C64 Commander Developer Guide

This guide covers development workflows for C64 Commander contributors.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and npm
- JDK 17 (for Android builds)
- Android SDK (for device builds)
- git

## Quick start

Clone the repository and build:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chrisgleissner/c64commander.git
cd c64commander
./build
```

This runs the full build pipeline: dependencies, web build, Capacitor sync, tests, and debug APK.

## Formatting

Repository formatting is standardized with Prettier + ESLint:

```bash
npm run format
npm run format:check
```

The `./build` script runs `npm run format` automatically before build steps (use `--skip-format` to bypass).

VS Code workspace settings in `.vscode/settings.json` enable:

- format on save
- ESLint fix on save
- Prettier as default formatter for TS/YAML/JSON/Markdown

## build - One-stop build tool

All common development tasks use `./build`:

### Build variants

```bash
./build                  # Full build: deps, build, web + Android unit tests, APK
./build --skip-tests     # Skip all tests
./build --skip-apk       # Build without APK generation
```

### Testing

```bash
./build --test           # Unit tests only (vitest)
./build --test-e2e       # E2E tests only (Playwright, no screenshots)
./build --test-e2e-ci    # Full CI mirror: screenshots + e2e + validation
./build --validate-evidence  # Validate Playwright evidence structure
./build --android-tests  # Run Android instrumentation tests (requires device/emulator)
./build --coverage       # Web + Android coverage checks
```

### Android

```bash
./build --emulator       # Launch Android emulator
./build --install        # Build and install APK to connected device
./build --device R5CRC3ZY9XH --install  # Install to specific device
./build --smoke-android-emulator  # Run emulator smoke tests (mock target only)
./build --smoke-android-real      # Run mock + real target smoke tests
./build --smoke-android-real --c64u-host C64U
./build --smoke-android-real --c64u-host auto  # External mock for emulator
```

Read `doc/testing/maestro.md` before writing or editing Maestro flows.

You can also run the Maestro flows directly from repo root:

```bash
maestro test .maestro
```

Maestro smoke evidence (screenshots + logs + meta) is written to:

```
test-results/evidence/maestro/<flow-name>/<deviceType>/
```

Raw Maestro runner output is written to:

```
test-results/maestro/
```

### Screenshots

```bash
./build --screenshots    # Update app screenshots in doc/img
./build --screenshots-only  # Capture screenshots only (no tests or APK)
```

Notes:
- `--screenshots` keeps the default full pipeline and then captures screenshots.
- `--screenshots-only` skips unit tests, E2E tests, and Android builds.
- `--test-e2e` runs Playwright without screenshots.
- `--test-e2e-ci` mirrors CI (screenshots + E2E + evidence validation).

## Test architecture

### Unit tests (Vitest)

Location: `tests/unit/` and `src/**/*.{test,spec}.{ts,tsx}`

Run:

```bash
./build --test
```

### E2E tests (Playwright)

Location: `playwright/*.spec.ts`

Key concepts:

- Strict UI monitoring: tests fail on console warnings/errors
- Evidence folders: `test-results/evidence/playwright/<testId>/<deviceId>/`
- Numbered screenshots: `01-step.png`, `02-step.png`, etc.
- Video recording: `video.webm` per test
- Trace files: `trace.zip` for debugging
- Trace opt-ins:
  - `enableTraceAssertions(testInfo)` for in-test semantic trace assertions
  - `enableGoldenTrace(testInfo)` for curated golden trace compare/record flow (registry-gated)
  - They are independent; use both when a test needs assertion coverage plus golden regression coverage

Run:

```bash
./build --test-e2e           # E2E only
./build --test-e2e-ci        # Full CI mirror
./build --validate-evidence  # Validate evidence structure
```

Evidence structure:

```
test-results/
  evidence/
    playwright/
      <testId>/
        <deviceId>/
          screenshots/
            01-<step>.png
            02-<step>.png
          video.webm
          trace.zip
          error-context.md  (only on failure)
          meta.json
playwright-report/
  index.html
```

Android emulator smoke evidence:

```
test-results/
  maestro/                 # raw Maestro output (runner-owned)
  evidence/
    maestro/
      <flow-name>/
        <deviceType>/
          screenshots/
            01-<step>.png
            02-<step>.png
          video.mp4         # optional (only if recorded)
          error-context.md
          meta.json
```

Android emulator smoke tests are Maestro flows under `.maestro/` (read `doc/testing/maestro.md` before editing):

```
.maestro/
  smoke-launch.yaml
  smoke-file-picker.yaml
  smoke-playback.yaml
  subflows/
    launch-and-wait.yaml
    common-navigation.yaml
```

Each flow is a standalone smoke test; shared steps live in subflows.

### Android JVM + instrumentation tests

Location: `android/app/src/test/java/`

Run:

```bash
./build
./build --android-tests
```

## Evidence validation

Validate that all test evidence folders have correct structure:

```bash
./build --validate-evidence
node scripts/validate-android-emulator-evidence.mjs
```

Checks:

- Every folder has at least one PNG
- All files have valid signatures (PNG/MP4/WEBM/ZIP)
- No zero-byte files

## CI workflow

CI runs on every push with two parallel jobs:

1. **Web tests** (unit + Playwright) producing Playwright evidence + report
2. **Android build** (Gradle tests + APK/AAB)

Artifacts:

- `playwright-test-results` - Evidence folders + raw Playwright outputs
- `playwright-report` - HTML test report
- `c64commander-<version>-debug.apk` - Debug APK (version resolved from tag/env/package.json)
- Release APK/AAB artifacts on tag builds when signing secrets are present (named `c64commander-<version>.apk`)

Performance notes:

- `PLAYWRIGHT_SKIP_BUILD=1` lets Playwright reuse a prebuilt `dist/` (build first).
- `PLAYWRIGHT_WORKERS` overrides Playwright worker count (default caps at 4).
- `GRADLE_MAX_WORKERS` caps Gradle workers (used by `build` and CI).
- The workflow supports a `package_manager` input for `workflow_dispatch` to compare `npm` vs `bun` install speed.

## CI + Coverage

Local reproduction (web coverage):

```bash
npm install
npm run test:coverage
VITE_COVERAGE=true VITE_ENABLE_TEST_PROBES=1 npm run build
VITE_COVERAGE=true npm run test:e2e
npx nyc report --temp-dir .nyc_output --report-dir coverage/e2e --reporter=lcov --reporter=text-summary
npx lcov-result-merger "coverage/{lcov.info,e2e/lcov.info}" coverage/lcov-merged.info
EXPECT_WEB_COVERAGE=1 node scripts/verify-coverage-artifacts.mjs
COVERAGE_MIN=75 node scripts/check-coverage-threshold.mjs
```

Local reproduction (Android coverage):

```bash
./build --coverage
```

Coverage outputs:

- Unit coverage: `coverage/lcov.info`
- E2E coverage: `coverage/e2e/lcov.info`
- Merged coverage (Codecov): `coverage/lcov-merged.info`
- Android Jacoco XML: `android/app/build/reports/jacoco/jacocoTestReport/jacocoTestReport.xml`

CI guardrails:

- `scripts/verify-coverage-artifacts.mjs` fails if expected coverage files are missing or empty.
- `scripts/check-coverage-threshold.mjs` enforces minimum line coverage (default 80%).
- `scripts/report-coverage.mjs` lists lowest-covered files to target for additional tests.

Download artifacts:

```bash
gh run list --workflow android-apk.yaml --limit 5
gh run download <run-id> --name playwright-evidence --dir /tmp/c64-evidence
gh run download <run-id> --name playwright-report --dir /tmp/c64-report
```

Validate downloaded evidence:

```bash
cd /tmp/c64-evidence
node /path/to/c64commander/scripts/validate-playwright-evidence.mjs
```

## Mock mode (internal testing)

The app includes a developer mode with mocked C64U REST + FTP servers:

1. Open Settings → About section
2. Tap 7 times quickly to unlock developer mode
3. Enable "Mock C64U" toggle
4. App connects to 127.0.0.1 with fixture-backed mock servers

Fixtures:

- REST config: `tests/mocks/mockC64Server.ts`
- FTP files: `playwright/fixtures/ftp-root/`

## FTP bridge overrides (Settings)

When troubleshooting FTP connectivity, the Settings → Connection page includes fields for:

- **FTP port** (default 21)
- **FTP bridge URL** (optional proxy/bridge)

These overrides are stored locally and take effect immediately for FTP listings and transfers.

## Project structure

```
src/
  components/       # React components (UI, disks, lists, item selection)
  hooks/            # React hooks (TanStack Query + custom hooks)
  lib/              # Core logic modules
    c64api.ts       # C64U REST API client
    config/         # Configuration utilities
    disks/          # Disk management logic
    hvsc/           # HVSC (High Voltage SID Collection) support
    native/         # Capacitor native bridge interfaces
    playback/       # File playback routing
    sid/            # SID music utilities
    sources/        # Song source abstractions
  pages/            # Route pages (Home, Config, Play, Disks, Settings, Docs)
  types/            # TypeScript type definitions

playwright/         # E2E tests (Playwright)
tests/              # Unit tests (Vitest)
android/            # Android/Capacitor project + JVM tests
doc/                # Documentation
scripts/            # Build and test scripts
.maestro/           # Maestro smoke tests (Android emulator)
```

## Architecture diagrams

### Overall app architecture

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph UI["React UI Layer"]
    Pages["Pages<br/>(Home, Config, Play, Disks, Settings, Docs)"]
    Components["Components<br/>(TabBar, AppBar, QuickActionCard, etc.)"]
  end

  subgraph State["State Management"]
    Query["TanStack Query<br/>(useQuery, useMutation)"]
    LocalStorage["localStorage<br/>(settings, configs)"]
  end

  subgraph Lib["Core Libraries"]
    API["c64api.ts<br/>(REST client)"]
    Playback["playback/<br/>(routing, autostart)"]
    HVSC["hvsc/<br/>(service, ingestion)"]
    Config["config/<br/>(app settings, SID control)"]
    Disks["disks/<br/>(mount, grouping)"]
  end

  subgraph Native["Native Bridges"]
    Capacitor["Capacitor<br/>(web-to-native)"]
    FTP["FtpClient<br/>(FTP operations)"]
    FolderPicker["FolderPicker<br/>(file selection)"]
    FeatureFlags["FeatureFlags<br/>(feature toggles)"]
  end

  subgraph Android["Android Layer"]
    App["C64 Commander<br/>(MainActivity)"]
    Plugins["Native Plugins<br/>(Kotlin/Java)"]
  end

  Pages --> Components
  Components --> Query
  Pages --> Query
  Query --> API
  Query --> Playback
  Query --> HVSC
  Query --> Config
  Query --> Disks
  API --> Capacitor
  Playback --> Capacitor
  HVSC --> Capacitor
  Capacitor --> FTP
  Capacitor --> FolderPicker
  Capacitor --> FeatureFlags
  FTP --> Plugins
  FolderPicker --> Plugins
  FeatureFlags --> Plugins
  Plugins --> App
```

### C64 Ultimate interaction flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant App as "C64 Commander App"
  participant API as "c64api.ts"
  participant HTTP as "CapacitorHttp"
  participant C64U as "C64 Ultimate REST API"
  participant FTP as "C64U FTP Server"

  Note over App, C64U: Connection Discovery
  App->>API: getDefaultBaseUrl() / resolveDeviceHostFromStorage()
  API-->>App: baseUrl (http://c64u)

  Note over App, C64U: Device Info Fetch
  App->>API: getInfo()
  API->>HTTP: GET /?J={"cmd":"info"}
  HTTP->>C64U: HTTP Request
  C64U-->>HTTP: JSON Response
  HTTP-->>API: DeviceInfo
  API-->>App: deviceInfo

  Note over App, C64U: Configuration
  App->>API: getCategories()
  API->>HTTP: GET /?J={"cmd":"config","op":"list"}
  HTTP->>C64U: HTTP Request
  C64U-->>HTTP: JSON Response
  HTTP-->>API: ConfigResponse
  API-->>App: config categories

  App->>API: updateConfig(category, item, value)
  API->>HTTP: POST /?J={"cmd":"config","op":"set",...}
  HTTP->>C64U: HTTP Request
  C64U-->>HTTP: JSON Response
  HTTP-->>API: status
  API-->>App: success/error

  Note over App, C64U: Drive Operations
  App->>API: mountDrive(8, diskImage)
  API->>HTTP: POST /?J={"cmd":"drive","op":"mount",...}
  HTTP->>C64U: HTTP Request
  C64U-->>HTTP: JSON Response
  HTTP-->>API: status
  API-->>App: success/error

  Note over App, C64U: File Upload (FTP)
  App->>FTP: connect(host, port, username, password)
  FTP-->>App: connected
  App->>FTP: uploadFile(remotePath, localContent)
  FTP->>C64U: FTP STOR
  C64U-->>FTP: success
  FTP-->>App: upload complete

  Note over App, C64U: File Playback
  App->>API: playFile(fileType, filePath)
  API->>HTTP: POST /?J={"cmd":"run",...}
  HTTP->>C64U: HTTP Request
  C64U-->>HTTP: JSON Response
  HTTP-->>API: status
  API-->>App: playback started
```

### Testing architecture

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph Local["Local Development"]
    LBuild["npm run cap:build"]
    LTest["npm run test"]
    LE2E["npm run test:e2e"]
    LSmoke["build --smoke-android-emulator"]
  end

  subgraph CI["GitHub Actions CI"]
    CIBuild["Web Build (Vite)"]
    CIUnit["Unit Tests (Vitest)"]
    CIE2E["E2E Tests (Playwright - 8 shards)"]
    CIScreenshots["Screenshot Tests"]
    CIAndroidBuild["Android Build (Gradle)"]
    CIAndroidTest["Android Tests (JUnit)"]
    CICoverage["Coverage Merge & Upload"]
  end

  subgraph TestTypes["Test Types"]
    Unit["Unit Tests<br/>(Vitest)"]
    E2E["E2E Tests<br/>(Playwright)"]
    Screenshots["Screenshot Tests<br/>(Playwright)"]
    Android["Android Tests<br/>(JUnit)"]
    Maestro["Maestro Smoke<br/>(Android Emulator)"]
    Fuzz["Chaos Fuzz<br/>(Playwright)"]
  end

  subgraph Evidence["Test Evidence"]
    Screenshots["PNG Screenshots"]
    Videos["WebM/MP4 Videos"]
    Traces["Playwright Traces"]
    Coverage["Coverage Reports"]
  end

  LBuild --> Unit
  LBuild --> E2E
  LBuild --> Screenshots
  LBuild --> Maestro

  CIBuild --> CIUnit
  CIBuild --> CIE2E
  CIBuild --> CIScreenshots
  CIBuild --> CIAndroidBuild
  CIAndroidBuild --> CIAndroidTest

  CIUnit --> Unit
  CIE2E --> E2E
  CIScreenshots --> Screenshots
  CIAndroidTest --> Android

  Unit --> Coverage
  E2E --> Screenshots
  E2E --> Videos
  E2E --> Traces
  Screenshots --> Evidence
  Android --> Coverage
```

### Testing interactions with app

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph TestFrameworks["Testing Frameworks"]
    Vitest["Vitest"]
    Playwright["Playwright"]
    Maestro["Maestro"]
    JUnit["JUnit"]
  end

  subgraph AppComponents["App Components Under Test"]
    Hooks["React Hooks"]
    API["c64api.ts"]
    Pages["Pages"]
    Components["Components"]
  end

  subgraph Mocking["Mock Layer"]
    MockC64U["MockC64U<br/>(REST mock server)"]
    MockFTP["MockFtpServer<br/>(FTP mock server)"]
    MockHVSC["MockHVSCServer<br/>(HVSC mock server)"]
  end

  subgraph Fixtures["Test Fixtures"]
    PlaywrightFixtures["playwright/fixtures/"]
    HVSCFixtures["android/test/fixtures/hvsc/"]
    FTPFixtures["playwright/fixtures/ftp-root/"]
  end

  Vitest --> Hooks
  Vitest --> API
  Vitest --> Components

  Playwright --> Pages
  Playwright --> Components
  Playwright --> MockC64U
  Playwright --> MockFTP
  Playwright --> MockHVSC

  Maestro --> App["Installed App"]
  Maestro --> MockC64U

  JUnit --> Plugins["Android Plugins"]
  JUnit --> Fixtures

  MockC64U --> PlaywrightFixtures
  MockFTP --> FTPFixtures
  MockHVSC --> HVSCFixtures
```

## Code conventions

- **TypeScript** for all source code
- **React** with hooks (no class components)
- **TanStack Query** for server state
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Shadcn/ui** for component library
- **Vitest** for unit tests
- **Playwright** for E2E tests

## Adding E2E tests

1. Create test file in `playwright/*.spec.ts`
2. Use helper functions from `playwright/testArtifacts.ts`:
   - `startStrictUiMonitoring(page, testInfo)` in beforeEach
   - `attachStepScreenshot(page, testInfo, 'step-name')` for screenshots
   - `assertNoUiIssues(page, testInfo)` in afterEach
   - `finalizeEvidence(page, testInfo)` in afterEach
   - `allowWarnings(testInfo, 'reason')` for expected errors

Example:

```typescript
import { test, expect, type Page, type TestInfo } from '@playwright/test';
import { assertNoUiIssues, attachStepScreenshot, finalizeEvidence, startStrictUiMonitoring } from './testArtifacts';

test.describe('My feature', () => {
  test.beforeEach(async ({ page }: { page: Page }, testInfo) => {
    await startStrictUiMonitoring(page, testInfo);
  });

  test.afterEach(async ({ page }: { page: Page }, testInfo) => {
    try {
      await assertNoUiIssues(page, testInfo);
    } finally {
      await finalizeEvidence(page, testInfo);
    }
  });

  test('does something', async ({ page }: { page: Page }, testInfo) => {
    await page.goto('/');
    await attachStepScreenshot(page, testInfo, 'initial-state');

    await page.click('[data-testid="my-button"]');
    await attachStepScreenshot(page, testInfo, 'after-click');

    await expect(page.locator('[data-testid="result"]')).toBeVisible();
    await attachStepScreenshot(page, testInfo, 'final-state');
  });
});
```

## Troubleshooting

### Playwright install fails

```bash
npx playwright install
```

### Android build fails with Gradle errors

```bash
cd android
./gradlew clean
cd ..
./build
```

### Tests fail with "Port 4173 already in use"

```bash
lsof -i :4173  # Find process
kill <PID>     # Kill it
```

### Evidence validation fails

Check for missing videos or corrupted files:

```bash
find test-results/evidence/playwright -name "video.webm" | wc -l  # Should match test count
find test-results/evidence/playwright -name "*.png" -size 0       # Should be empty
```

## Contributing

1. Create feature branch
2. Make changes
3. Run full build: `./build --test-e2e-ci`
4. Ensure all tests pass
5. Commit and push
6. Create pull request
7. Wait for CI to pass

## Release process

Releases are created via GitHub Actions on tag push:

```bash
git tag v0.2.0
git push origin v0.2.0
```

CI builds and uploads APK to the release.

Commit message:

feat: update VS Code settings and package scripts for improved formatting and linting

doc/developer.md, after:

# C64 Commander Developer Guide

This guide covers development workflows for C64 Commander contributors.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and npm
- JDK 17 (for Android builds)
- Android SDK (for device builds)
- git

## Quick start

Clone the repository and build:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chrisgleissner/c64commander.git
cd c64commander
./build
```

This runs the full build pipeline: dependencies, web build, Capacitor sync, tests, and debug APK.

## Formatting

Repository formatting is standardized with Prettier + ESLint:

```bash
npm run format
npm run format:check
```

The `./build` script runs `npm run format` automatically before build steps (use `--skip-format` to bypass).

VS Code workspace settings in `.vscode/settings.json` enable:

- format on save
- ESLint fix on save
- TypeScript/JavaScript: built-in formatter + ESLint fixes
- YAML and GitHub workflow YAML: Prettier (2-space indent, double quotes)
- JSON/Markdown: built-in VS Code formatters
- Kotlin: format on save is enabled; no repo-enforced Kotlin formatter is configured

## build - One-stop build tool

All common development tasks use `./build`:

### Build variants

```bash
./build                  # Full build: deps, build, web + Android unit tests, APK
./build --skip-tests     # Skip all tests
./build --skip-apk       # Build without APK generation
```

### Testing

```bash
./build --test           # Unit tests only (vitest)
./build --test-e2e       # E2E tests only (Playwright, no screenshots)
./build --test-e2e-ci    # Full CI mirror: screenshots + e2e + validation
./build --validate-evidence  # Validate Playwright evidence structure
./build --android-tests  # Run Android instrumentation tests (requires device/emulator)
./build --coverage       # Web + Android coverage checks
```

### Android

```bash
./build --emulator       # Launch Android emulator
./build --install        # Build and install APK to connected device
./build --device R5CRC3ZY9XH --install  # Install to specific device
./build --smoke-android-emulator  # Run emulator smoke tests (mock target only)
./build --smoke-android-real      # Run mock + real target smoke tests
./build --smoke-android-real --c64u-host C64U
./build --smoke-android-real --c64u-host auto  # External mock for emulator
```

Read `doc/testing/maestro.md` before writing or editing Maestro flows.

You can also run the Maestro flows directly from repo root:

```bash
maestro test .maestro
```

Maestro smoke evidence (screenshots + logs + meta) is written to:

```
test-results/evidence/maestro/<flow-name>/<deviceType>/
```

Raw Maestro runner output is written to:

```
test-results/maestro/
```

### Screenshots

```bash
./build --screenshots    # Update app screenshots in doc/img
./build --screenshots-only  # Capture screenshots only (no tests or APK)
```

Notes:
- `--screenshots` keeps the default full pipeline and then captures screenshots.
- `--screenshots-only` skips unit tests, E2E tests, and Android builds.
- `--test-e2e` runs Playwright without screenshots.
- `--test-e2e-ci` mirrors CI (screenshots + E2E + evidence validation).

## Test architecture

### Unit tests (Vitest)

Location: `tests/unit/` and `src/**/*.{test,spec}.{ts,tsx}`

Run:

```bash
./build --test
```

### E2E tests (Playwright)

Location: `playwright/*.spec.ts`

Key concepts:

- Strict UI monitoring: tests fail on console warnings/errors
- Evidence folders: `test-results/evidence/playwright/<testId>/<deviceId>/`
- Numbered screenshots: `01-step.png`, `02-step.png`, etc.
- Video recording: `video.webm` per test
- Trace files: `trace.zip` for debugging
- Trace opt-ins:
  - `enableTraceAssertions(testInfo)` for in-test semantic trace assertions
  - `enableGoldenTrace(testInfo)` for curated golden trace compare/record flow (registry-gated)
  - They are independent; use both when a test needs assertion coverage plus golden regression coverage

Run:

```bash
./build --test-e2e           # E2E only
./build --test-e2e-ci        # Full CI mirror
./build --validate-evidence  # Validate evidence structure
```

Evidence structure:

```
test-results/
  evidence/
    playwright/
      <testId>/
        <deviceId>/
          screenshots/
            01-<step>.png
            02-<step>.png
          video.webm
          trace.zip
          error-context.md  (only on failure)
          meta.json
playwright-report/
  index.html
```

Android emulator smoke evidence:

```
test-results/
  maestro/                 # raw Maestro output (runner-owned)
  evidence/
    maestro/
      <flow-name>/
        <deviceType>/
          screenshots/
            01-<step>.png
            02-<step>.png
          video.mp4         # optional (only if recorded)
          error-context.md
          meta.json
```

Android emulator smoke tests are Maestro flows under `.maestro/` (read `doc/testing/maestro.md` before editing):

```
.maestro/
  smoke-launch.yaml
  smoke-file-picker.yaml
  smoke-playback.yaml
  subflows/
    launch-and-wait.yaml
    common-navigation.yaml
```

Each flow is a standalone smoke test; shared steps live in subflows.

### Android JVM + instrumentation tests

Location: `android/app/src/test/java/`

Run:

```bash
./build
./build --android-tests
```

## Evidence validation

Validate that all test evidence folders have correct structure:

```bash
./build --validate-evidence
node scripts/validate-android-emulator-evidence.mjs
```

Checks:

- Every folder has at least one PNG
- All files have valid signatures (PNG/MP4/WEBM/ZIP)
- No zero-byte files

## CI workflow

CI runs on every push with two parallel jobs:

1. **Web tests** (unit + Playwright) producing Playwright evidence + report
2. **Android build** (Gradle tests + APK/AAB)

Artifacts:

- `playwright-test-results` - Evidence folders + raw Playwright outputs
- `playwright-report` - HTML test report
- `c64commander-<version>-debug.apk` - Debug APK (version resolved from tag/env/package.json)
- Release APK/AAB artifacts on tag builds when signing secrets are present (named `c64commander-<version>.apk`)

Performance notes:

- `PLAYWRIGHT_SKIP_BUILD=1` lets Playwright reuse a prebuilt `dist/` (build first).
- `PLAYWRIGHT_WORKERS` overrides Playwright worker count (default caps at 4).
- `GRADLE_MAX_WORKERS` caps Gradle workers (used by `build` and CI).
- The workflow supports a `package_manager` input for `workflow_dispatch` to compare `npm` vs `bun` install speed.

## CI + Coverage

Local reproduction (web coverage):

```bash
npm install
npm run test:coverage
VITE_COVERAGE=true VITE_ENABLE_TEST_PROBES=1 npm run build
VITE_COVERAGE=true npm run test:e2e
npx nyc report --temp-dir .nyc_output --report-dir coverage/e2e --reporter=lcov --reporter=text-summary
npx lcov-result-merger "coverage/{lcov.info,e2e/lcov.info}" coverage/lcov-merged.info
EXPECT_WEB_COVERAGE=1 node scripts/verify-coverage-artifacts.mjs
COVERAGE_MIN=75 node scripts/check-coverage-threshold.mjs
```

Local reproduction (Android coverage):

```bash
./build --coverage
```

Coverage outputs:

- Unit coverage: `coverage/lcov.info`
- E2E coverage: `coverage/e2e/lcov.info`
- Merged coverage (Codecov): `coverage/lcov-merged.info`
- Android Jacoco XML: `android/app/build/reports/jacoco/jacocoTestReport/jacocoTestReport.xml`

CI guardrails:

- `scripts/verify-coverage-artifacts.mjs` fails if expected coverage files are missing or empty.
- `scripts/check-coverage-threshold.mjs` enforces minimum line coverage (default 80%).
- `scripts/report-coverage.mjs` lists lowest-covered files to target for additional tests.

Download artifacts:

```bash
gh run list --workflow android-apk.yaml --limit 5
gh run download <run-id> --name playwright-evidence --dir /tmp/c64-evidence
gh run download <run-id> --name playwright-report --dir /tmp/c64-report
```

Validate downloaded evidence:

```bash
cd /tmp/c64-evidence
node /path/to/c64commander/scripts/validate-playwright-evidence.mjs
```

## Mock mode (internal testing)

The app includes a developer mode with mocked C64U REST + FTP servers:

1. Open Settings → About section
2. Tap 7 times quickly to unlock developer mode
3. Enable "Mock C64U" toggle
4. App connects to 127.0.0.1 with fixture-backed mock servers

Fixtures:

- REST config: `tests/mocks/mockC64Server.ts`
- FTP files: `playwright/fixtures/ftp-root/`

## FTP bridge overrides (Settings)

When troubleshooting FTP connectivity, the Settings → Connection page includes fields for:

- **FTP port** (default 21)
- **FTP bridge URL** (optional proxy/bridge)

These overrides are stored locally and take effect immediately for FTP listings and transfers.

## Project structure

```
src/
  components/       # React components (UI, disks, lists, item selection)
  hooks/            # React hooks (TanStack Query + custom hooks)
  lib/              # Core logic modules
    c64api.ts       # C64U REST API client
    config/         # Configuration utilities
    disks/          # Disk management logic
    hvsc/           # HVSC (High Voltage SID Collection) support
    native/         # Capacitor native bridge interfaces
    playback/       # File playback routing
    sid/            # SID music utilities
    sources/        # Song source abstractions
  pages/            # Route pages (Home, Config, Play, Disks, Settings, Docs)
  types/            # TypeScript type definitions

playwright/         # E2E tests (Playwright)
tests/              # Unit tests (Vitest)
android/            # Android/Capacitor project + JVM tests
doc/                # Documentation
scripts/            # Build and test scripts
.maestro/           # Maestro smoke tests (Android emulator)
```

## Architecture diagrams

### Overall app architecture

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph UI["React UI Layer"]
    Pages["Pages<br/>(Home, Config, Play, Disks, Settings, Docs)"]
    Components["Components<br/>(TabBar, AppBar, QuickActionCard, etc.)"]
  end

  subgraph State["State Management"]
    Query["TanStack Query<br/>(useQuery, useMutation)"]
    LocalStorage["localStorage<br/>(settings, configs)"]
  end

  subgraph Lib["Core Libraries"]
    API["c64api.ts<br/>(REST client)"]
    Playback["playback/<br/>(routing, autostart)"]
    HVSC["hvsc/<br/>(service, ingestion)"]
    Config["config/<br/>(app settings, SID control)"]
    Disks["disks/<br/>(mount, grouping)"]
  end

  subgraph Native["Native Bridges"]
    Capacitor["Capacitor<br/>(web-to-native)"]
    FTP["FtpClient<br/>(FTP operations)"]
    FolderPicker["FolderPicker<br/>(file selection)"]
    FeatureFlags["FeatureFlags<br/>(feature toggles)"]
  end

  subgraph Android["Android Layer"]
    App["C64 Commander<br/>(MainActivity)"]
    Plugins["Native Plugins<br/>(Kotlin/Java)"]
  end

  Pages --> Components
  Components --> Query
  Pages --> Query
  Query --> API
  Query --> Playback
  Query --> HVSC
  Query --> Config
  Query --> Disks
  API --> Capacitor
  Playback --> Capacitor
  HVSC --> Capacitor
  Capacitor --> FTP
  Capacitor --> FolderPicker
  Capacitor --> FeatureFlags
  FTP --> Plugins
  FolderPicker --> Plugins
  FeatureFlags --> Plugins
  Plugins --> App
```

### C64 Ultimate interaction flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant App as "C64 Commander App"
  participant API as "c64api.ts"
  participant HTTP as "CapacitorHttp"
  participant C64U as "C64 Ultimate REST API"
  participant FTP as "C64U FTP Server"

  Note over App, C64U: Connection Discovery
  App->>API: getDefaultBaseUrl() / resolveDeviceHostFromStorage()
  API-->>App: baseUrl (http://c64u)

  Note over App, C64U: Device Info Fetch
  App->>API: getInfo()
  API->>HTTP: GET /?J={"cmd":"info"}
  HTTP->>C64U: HTTP Request
  C64U-->>HTTP: JSON Response
  HTTP-->>API: DeviceInfo
  API-->>App: deviceInfo

  Note over App, C64U: Configuration
  App->>API: getCategories()
  API->>HTTP: GET /?J={"cmd":"config","op":"list"}
  HTTP->>C64U: HTTP Request
  C64U-->>HTTP: JSON Response
  HTTP-->>API: ConfigResponse
  API-->>App: config categories

  App->>API: updateConfig(category, item, value)
  API->>HTTP: POST /?J={"cmd":"config","op":"set",...}
  HTTP->>C64U: HTTP Request
  C64U-->>HTTP: JSON Response
  HTTP-->>API: status
  API-->>App: success/error

  Note over App, C64U: Drive Operations
  App->>API: mountDrive(8, diskImage)
  API->>HTTP: POST /?J={"cmd":"drive","op":"mount",...}
  HTTP->>C64U: HTTP Request
  C64U-->>HTTP: JSON Response
  HTTP-->>API: status
  API-->>App: success/error

  Note over App, C64U: File Upload (FTP)
  App->>FTP: connect(host, port, username, password)
  FTP-->>App: connected
  App->>FTP: uploadFile(remotePath, localContent)
  FTP->>C64U: FTP STOR
  C64U-->>FTP: success
  FTP-->>App: upload complete

  Note over App, C64U: File Playback
  App->>API: playFile(fileType, filePath)
  API->>HTTP: POST /?J={"cmd":"run",...}
  HTTP->>C64U: HTTP Request
  C64U-->>HTTP: JSON Response
  HTTP-->>API: status
  API-->>App: playback started
```

### Testing architecture

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph Local["Local Development"]
    LBuild["npm run cap:build"]
    LTest["npm run test"]
    LE2E["npm run test:e2e"]
    LSmoke["build --smoke-android-emulator"]
  end

  subgraph CI["GitHub Actions CI"]
    CIBuild["Web Build (Vite)"]
    CIUnit["Unit Tests (Vitest)"]
    CIE2E["E2E Tests (Playwright - 8 shards)"]
    CIScreenshots["Screenshot Tests"]
    CIAndroidBuild["Android Build (Gradle)"]
    CIAndroidTest["Android Tests (JUnit)"]
    CICoverage["Coverage Merge & Upload"]
  end

  subgraph TestTypes["Test Types"]
    Unit["Unit Tests<br/>(Vitest)"]
    E2E["E2E Tests<br/>(Playwright)"]
    Screenshots["Screenshot Tests<br/>(Playwright)"]
    Android["Android Tests<br/>(JUnit)"]
    Maestro["Maestro Smoke<br/>(Android Emulator)"]
    Fuzz["Chaos Fuzz<br/>(Playwright)"]
  end

  subgraph Evidence["Test Evidence"]
    Screenshots["PNG Screenshots"]
    Videos["WebM/MP4 Videos"]
    Traces["Playwright Traces"]
    Coverage["Coverage Reports"]
  end

  LBuild --> Unit
  LBuild --> E2E
  LBuild --> Screenshots
  LBuild --> Maestro

  CIBuild --> CIUnit
  CIBuild --> CIE2E
  CIBuild --> CIScreenshots
  CIBuild --> CIAndroidBuild
  CIAndroidBuild --> CIAndroidTest

  CIUnit --> Unit
  CIE2E --> E2E
  CIScreenshots --> Screenshots
  CIAndroidTest --> Android

  Unit --> Coverage
  E2E --> Screenshots
  E2E --> Videos
  E2E --> Traces
  Screenshots --> Evidence
  Android --> Coverage
```

### Testing interactions with app

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph TestFrameworks["Testing Frameworks"]
    Vitest["Vitest"]
    Playwright["Playwright"]
    Maestro["Maestro"]
    JUnit["JUnit"]
  end

  subgraph AppComponents["App Components Under Test"]
    Hooks["React Hooks"]
    API["c64api.ts"]
    Pages["Pages"]
    Components["Components"]
  end

  subgraph Mocking["Mock Layer"]
    MockC64U["MockC64U<br/>(REST mock server)"]
    MockFTP["MockFtpServer<br/>(FTP mock server)"]
    MockHVSC["MockHVSCServer<br/>(HVSC mock server)"]
  end

  subgraph Fixtures["Test Fixtures"]
    PlaywrightFixtures["playwright/fixtures/"]
    HVSCFixtures["android/test/fixtures/hvsc/"]
    FTPFixtures["playwright/fixtures/ftp-root/"]
  end

  Vitest --> Hooks
  Vitest --> API
  Vitest --> Components

  Playwright --> Pages
  Playwright --> Components
  Playwright --> MockC64U
  Playwright --> MockFTP
  Playwright --> MockHVSC

  Maestro --> App["Installed App"]
  Maestro --> MockC64U

  JUnit --> Plugins["Android Plugins"]
  JUnit --> Fixtures

  MockC64U --> PlaywrightFixtures
  MockFTP --> FTPFixtures
  MockHVSC --> HVSCFixtures
```

## Code conventions

- **TypeScript** for all source code
- **React** with hooks (no class components)
- **TanStack Query** for server state
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Shadcn/ui** for component library
- **Vitest** for unit tests
- **Playwright** for E2E tests

## Adding E2E tests

1. Create test file in `playwright/*.spec.ts`
2. Use helper functions from `playwright/testArtifacts.ts`:
   - `startStrictUiMonitoring(page, testInfo)` in beforeEach
   - `attachStepScreenshot(page, testInfo, 'step-name')` for screenshots
   - `assertNoUiIssues(page, testInfo)` in afterEach
   - `finalizeEvidence(page, testInfo)` in afterEach
   - `allowWarnings(testInfo, 'reason')` for expected errors

Example:

```typescript
import { test, expect, type Page, type TestInfo } from '@playwright/test';
import { assertNoUiIssues, attachStepScreenshot, finalizeEvidence, startStrictUiMonitoring } from './testArtifacts';

test.describe('My feature', () => {
  test.beforeEach(async ({ page }: { page: Page }, testInfo) => {
    await startStrictUiMonitoring(page, testInfo);
  });

  test.afterEach(async ({ page }: { page: Page }, testInfo) => {
    try {
      await assertNoUiIssues(page, testInfo);
    } finally {
      await finalizeEvidence(page, testInfo);
    }
  });

  test('does something', async ({ page }: { page: Page }, testInfo) => {
    await page.goto('/');
    await attachStepScreenshot(page, testInfo, 'initial-state');

    await page.click('[data-testid="my-button"]');
    await attachStepScreenshot(page, testInfo, 'after-click');

    await expect(page.locator('[data-testid="result"]')).toBeVisible();
    await attachStepScreenshot(page, testInfo, 'final-state');
  });
});
```

## Troubleshooting

### Playwright install fails

```bash
npx playwright install
```

### Android build fails with Gradle errors

```bash
cd android
./gradlew clean
cd ..
./build
```

### Tests fail with "Port 4173 already in use"

```bash
lsof -i :4173  # Find process
kill <PID>     # Kill it
```

### Evidence validation fails

Check for missing videos or corrupted files:

```bash
find test-results/evidence/playwright -name "video.webm" | wc -l  # Should match test count
find test-results/evidence/playwright -name "*.png" -size 0       # Should be empty
```

## Contributing

1. Create feature branch
2. Make changes
3. Run full build: `./build --test-e2e-ci`
4. Ensure all tests pass
5. Commit and push
6. Create pull request
7. Wait for CI to pass

## Release process

Releases are created via GitHub Actions on tag push:

```bash
git tag v0.2.0
git push origin v0.2.0
```

CI builds and uploads APK to the release.
