doc/tracing.md, before:

# C64 Commander – Tracing Specification

## 1. Purpose and Scope

This document defines the Tracing system for the C64 Commander Capacitor-based application (Web, Android, iOS).

Tracing provides a structured, append-only, machine-readable record of:

- Semantic user, automatic, and system actions
- Resulting REST and FTP interactions
- Backend target selection and fallback decisions
- Causality, ordering, and outcomes required for debugging and automated verification

This specification is the single source of truth for implementation, testing, and diagnostics.

Tracing is not a replacement for logs. Logs remain message-oriented and human-readable. Traces are structured and machine-oriented.

---

## 2. Design Principles

1. Always-on, rolling session
   - One in-memory trace session per app process
   - Retention limited by both time and size
   - Deterministic eviction rules

2. Zero-noise integration
   - No explicit lifecycle calls in business logic
   - No tracing-specific control flow
   - No per-line or per-call instrumentation
   - Tracing must never reduce code readability

3. Semantic focus
   - Only meaningful actions are traced
   - Low-level UI events and rendering noise are excluded

4. Strict causality
   - Every backend interaction is causally linked to exactly one action
   - Correlation is explicit and mandatory

5. Deterministic testability
   - Traces are designed for semantic assertions
   - Byte-for-byte comparison is explicitly out of scope
   - Timestamps, relative times, hostnames, ports, and IPs are non-semantic and MUST be normalized in trace comparisons

6. Safety by construction
   - Credentials are redacted at capture time
   - Sensitive data never enters the trace buffer

---

## 3. Terminology

- Trace Session  
  The rolling, in-memory collection of trace events.

- Trace Event  
  A single structured record describing one meaningful occurrence.

- Action Trace  
  A root semantic trace representing a logical operation.

- Event ID  
  A deterministic identifier uniquely identifying a single trace event.

- Correlation ID  
  A deterministic identifier linking one logical action to all downstream events.

- Origin  
  One of user, automatic, or system.

---

## 4. Trace Session Lifecycle

### 4.1 Creation

- Created automatically at app startup.

### 4.2 Retention

A trace session retains events subject to both limits:

- Maximum wall-clock window: 30 minutes
- Maximum event count: 10,000 trace events
- Maximum storage (estimated): 50 MiB

The effective retention is the smaller of the two.

Eviction is deterministic and FIFO based on event age.

### 4.3 Clearing on Restart

- All traces are cleared automatically on app restart.
- Trace sessions do not persist across process restarts.

### 4.4 Manual Clearing

- User-triggered via Settings → Diagnostics → Traces → Clear Traces
- Clears all retained events without restarting the app or trace session.

### 4.5 Programmatic Clearing

- Exposed to Playwright and test tooling
- Clears the rolling buffer without restarting the app.

---

## 5. Identifier Model

### 5.1 Event IDs

- Field: id
- Namespace: EVT-
- Format: EVT-0000

Semantics:

- Uniquely identifies a single trace event
- Monotonic and strictly increasing
- Scoped to one trace session
- Never reused

Range:

- EVT-0000 through EVT-9999

Reset Rule:

- Reset to EVT-0000 at test start via a test-only API.

---

### 5.2 Correlation IDs

- Field: correlationId
- Namespace: COR-
- Format: COR-0000

Semantics:

- Identifies exactly one logical Action Trace
- All events belonging to that action share the same correlationId
- One correlation per action
- No reuse

Range:

- COR-0000 through COR-9999

Reset Rule:

- Reset to COR-0000 at test start via a test-only API.

---

### 5.3 Allocation Rules (Common)

- Deterministic
- Sequential
- Zero-padded to fixed width (4 digits)
- No UUIDs, randomness, hashes, or timestamps
- Allocation performed by a single in-process ID provider

---

### 5.4 Stability Guarantees

- Same test + same code + same inputs produce identical IDs
- IDs must match exactly in golden trace comparison
- IDs are designed for grepability and diff stability

---

### 5.5 Explicit Non-Namespaces

The following are explicitly forbidden:

- Per-thread namespaces
- Per-component namespaces
- Per-origin namespaces
- ID reuse across sessions
- Compression or shortening at export time

---

## 6. Event Envelope

All trace events share a common envelope:

{
  "id": "EVT-00042",
  "timestamp": "ISO-8601",
  "relativeMs": 123,
  "type": "event-type",
  "origin": "user | automatic | system",
  "correlationId": "COR-00007",
  "data": {}
}

- timestamp is absolute and diagnostic
- relativeMs is milliseconds since session start and is the primary ordering key for tests

---

## 7. Action Tracing Model

### 7.1 Action Traces

An Action Trace represents one logical operation.

Each Action Trace:

- Allocates exactly one new correlationId
- Has a clear start and end
- Owns all child events
- Is never nested

Sequential actions produce sequential correlation IDs.

---

### 7.2 Action Trace Origins

Each Action Trace declares an origin:

- user
- automatic
- system

Origin is descriptive only and does not alter causality.

---

## 8. Automatic Context Enrichment

Each Action Trace automatically captures:

### 8.1 UI Context

- Current route and query parameters
- Platform (web, android, ios)
- Feature flag snapshot

### 8.2 Playback Context (when applicable)

- Playlist length
- Current index
- Current item identifier
- Playing or paused state
- Elapsed playback time

### 8.3 Device Context

- C64 device identifier
- Connection status

No explicit application code is required.

---

## 9. Scoped Sub-Traces (Optional)

For large multi-phase flows only:

```ts
await trace.scope('playlist.add', async () => {
  await scanFiles();
  await resolveSongLengths();
  await updatePlaylist();
});
```

Rules:

- Optional and rare
- One scope per logical phase
- Never deeply nested
- Never used for trivial handlers

---

## 10. Backend Target Semantics

All backend interactions explicitly declare their target:

- `internal-mock` – built into the app, demo mode
- `external-mock` – started by test infrastructure
- `real-device` – physical C64 Ultimate device

IP address and port are informational only.

---

## 11. Backend Decision Event

```json
{
  "type": "backend-decision",
  "data": {
    "selectedTarget": "internal-mock | external-mock | real-device",
    "reason": "reachable | fallback | demo-mode | test-mode"
  }
}
```

Rules:

- Exactly one per correlation
- Must precede any REST or FTP operation

---

## 12. REST Tracing

- REST tracing is transparent
- `getC64API()` returns a Proxy-wrapped client

### REST Request Event

```json
{
  "type": "rest-request",
  "data": {
    "method": "POST",
    "url": "http://host/v1/runners:sidplay",
    "normalizedUrl": "/v1/runners:sidplay",
    "headers": {
      "Authorization": "***"
    },
    "body": {},
    "target": "internal-mock | external-mock | real-device"
  }
}
```

### REST Response Event

```json
{
  "type": "rest-response",
  "data": {
    "status": 200,
    "body": {},
    "durationMs": 34,
    "error": null
  }
}
```

Rules:

- Response immediately follows its request
- Shares the same `correlationId`
- Network passwords are redacted

REST calls outside an Action Trace create implicit root Action Traces.

---

## 13. FTP Tracing

```json
{
  "type": "ftp-operation",
  "data": {
    "operation": "list | get | put | login",
    "path": "/SIDS/HVSC/file.sid",
    "result": "success | failure",
    "error": null,
    "target": "internal-mock | external-mock | real-device"
  }
}
```

Rules:

- FTP credentials are always redacted
- Semantics are equivalent to REST tracing

---

## 14. Error Handling

- Tracing never swallows errors
- Errors propagate unchanged
- Each error is recorded exactly once
- Duplicate logging is suppressed

---

## 15. Redaction Rules

### 15.1 Redacted Data

- Network passwords
- FTP credentials
- Tokens
- Android SAF and filesystem URIs

### 15.2 Timing

- Redaction occurs at capture time
- Sensitive data never enters the trace buffer

---

## 16. Storage and Export

### 16.1 Runtime Storage

- In-memory only
- No serialization on hot paths

### 16.2 Export Triggers

- Explicit user export
- Test completion
- Error scenarios

### 16.3 Export Format

ZIP archive containing:

- `trace.json`
- `app-metadata.json`

`app-metadata.json` is export-only and describes the running app/build/device context (for example: app version, platform, build identifier, and device model). It must not include test-specific fields.

Schema is stable and CI-friendly.

---

## 17. UI Integration

### 17.1 Navigation

Settings → Diagnostics → Traces

### 17.2 Presentation

- Overlay panel
- Raw JSON viewer
- Collapsible nodes
- Read-only

### 17.3 Controls

- Clear Traces
- Share / Export

---

## 18. Playwright Integration

### 18.1 Exposed APIs

- `clearTraces()`
- `getTraces()`

### 18.2 Assertion Strategy

Tests assert:

- Presence of expected events
- Correct ordering
- Correct targets
- Correct payload semantics

ID-related notes:

- Tests MUST assert exact EVT-* and COR-* identifiers
- ID reset MUST occur before each test via test-only API
- Golden trace normalization MUST NOT ignore IDs

### 18.3 Strict Mode

- Optional per-test strictness
- Global override supported

### 18.4 Trace Assertion Opt-In Model

Trace assertions are **explicit opt-in** by default. Tests must call the Playwright helper to enable them:

```ts
enableTraceAssertions(testInfo);
```

Optional per-test strictness:

```ts
enableTraceAssertions(testInfo, { strict: true });
```

Opt-out (only needed when a global default is enabled):

```ts
disableTraceAssertions(testInfo, 'Reason for excluding this test');
```

**Configuration sources and precedence:**

1. **Per-test annotation** via `enableTraceAssertions()` / `disableTraceAssertions()` (highest precedence)
2. **Environment defaults**
   - `TRACE_ASSERTIONS_DEFAULT=1` → treat all tests as trace-enabled unless explicitly opted out
   - `TRACE_STRICT=1` → strict ordering enabled unless explicitly disabled per-test

**Enforcement:**

All trace assertion helpers call the opt-in guard. If a test is not opted in, helpers throw with a message describing how to enable tracing. This prevents silent partial coverage.

### 18.5 Trace Assertion Helpers

Canonical helpers live in [playwright/traceUtils.ts](playwright/traceUtils.ts) and are the only supported API for trace assertions:

- `clearTraces(page)`
  - Clears the in-memory trace buffer in the running app.

- `getTraces(page)`
  - Returns the current trace events as JSON.

- `assertRestTraceSequence(testInfo, events, matcher, expectedTypes?)`
  - Asserts a REST request exists and is ordered correctly within its `correlationId`.
  - Defaults to: `action-start → backend-decision → rest-request → rest-response → action-end`.

- `expectRestTraceSequence(page, testInfo, matcher, expectedTypes?)`
  - Polls until the REST trace sequence exists, then returns the matched events.

- `assertFtpTraceSequence(testInfo, events, predicate?, expectedTypes?)`
  - Asserts an FTP operation exists and is ordered correctly within its `correlationId`.
  - Defaults to: `action-start → backend-decision → ftp-operation → action-end`.

- `expectFtpTraceSequence(page, testInfo, predicate?, expectedTypes?)`
  - Polls until the FTP trace sequence exists, then returns the matched events.

- `assertTraceOrder(testInfo, events, expectedTypes?)`
  - Asserts ordering within a single correlation. Strict mode requires exact sequence.

- `findTraceEvent(events, type, predicate?)`
  - Convenience locator for a single event.

- `findRestRequest(events, matcher)` / `findFtpOperation(events, predicate?)`
  - Convenience helpers for event lookup.

**What helpers assert by default:**

- Event ordering within the same `correlationId`
- Presence of required semantic events
- Backend target/decision can be asserted by the test (when stable)

**What helpers do not assert:**

- Absolute timestamps
- Durations
- Byte-for-byte equality of payloads

**Correlation boundaries:**

All ordering assertions are scoped to a single `correlationId`. Tests must never mix events from multiple actions.

### 18.6 Scaling Strategy to 50% Coverage

Selection criteria:

- Prefer tests that already trigger REST/FTP calls (e.g., config changes, disk mounts, playback actions).
- Prefer tests with deterministic backend behavior (mock server, stable routes).

Order of migration:

1. Playback + disk management flows
2. Settings flows that call `/v1/info` or `/v1/configs`
3. FTP-based selection flows (list/open)
4. Demo-mode transitions that hit discovery or config endpoints

Patterns to avoid (brittle):

- Asserting full trace equality inside test code
- Asserting absolute timestamps or durations
- Asserting every event in high-volume sequences (e.g., rapid sliders)
- Coupling trace assertions to UI-only flows with no backend side effects

Rules for when **not** to add trace assertions:

- Visual-only or layout-only tests
- Coverage-only or probe-only tests
- Empty placeholder specs

---

## 19. Golden Trace Recording

### 19.1 Purpose

Golden traces capture a deterministic, reviewable baseline of expected traces for local verification and CI parity.

### 19.2 Local Build Integration

#### Execution

`local-build.sh` exposes a trace recording mode:

- `--record-traces`
- Optional overrides:
  - `--trace-output-dir <path>` (default: `test-results/traces/golden`)
  - `--trace-suite <name>` (scope recording to a Playwright project or test tag)

Equivalent environment variables:

- `RECORD_TRACES=1`
- `TRACE_OUTPUT_DIR=<path>`
- `TRACE_SUITE=<name>`

When enabled, Playwright runs in trace-recording mode and exports:

- `trace.json` for each test
- `meta.json` (Playwright evidence metadata) as the canonical per-test manifest

Recording mode MUST NOT alter application behavior or timing.

#### Files

Each `test-results/evidence/playwright/<testId>/<deviceId>` folder contains:

- `trace.json`
- `meta.json`

`meta.json` provides test name, project, timestamp, and file path context. Trace recording MUST reuse this file instead of generating a second manifest.

`app-metadata.json` is not part of Playwright evidence. If present in exported archives, it is ignored for golden trace comparison.

| Concept            | Scope        | Ownership   | Included in Golden Comparison | Purpose |
|--------------------|--------------|-------------|-------------------------------|---------|
| trace.json         | Per test     | Tracing     | Yes                           | Semantic, causal record of app behavior |
| meta.json          | Per test     | Playwright  | No                            | Test identity, project, device, and outcome |
| app-metadata.json  | Per export   | Tracing     | No                            | App, build, platform, and device context |

### 19.3 Trace Comparison Normalization

Golden trace comparison MUST ignore volatile fields while preserving semantic order and causality.

The following values are ignored or normalized:

- `timestamp` (absolute)
- `relativeMs` (ordering retained; exact values ignored)
- IP addresses and ports inside REST/FTP URLs
- Any backend host identifiers that differ across runs
- `durationMs` on REST responses

The following values MUST match exactly:

- `id` and `correlationId` (deterministic numeric counters)

Meta normalization for `meta.json` is not used in golden trace comparison.

### 19.4 Developer Workflow (Step-by-Step)

1. **Record golden traces locally**

  ```bash
  ./local-build.sh --test-e2e --record-traces --trace-suite tracing
  ```

  Or use direct env variables:

  ```bash
  RECORD_TRACES=1 TRACE_SUITE=tracing npm run test:e2e
  ```

1. **Review generated files**

- Evidence (always written):
  - `test-results/evidence/playwright/<testId>/<deviceId>/trace.json`
  - `test-results/evidence/playwright/<testId>/<deviceId>/meta.json`
- Golden traces:
  - `test-results/traces/golden/<suite>/<testId>/<deviceId>/trace.json`

1. **Validate against goldens**

  ```bash
  npm run validate:traces
  ```

  You can override the golden directory:

  ```bash
  TRACE_GOLDEN_DIR=/path/to/golden npm run validate:traces
  ```

1. **Update goldens when behavior changes intentionally**

- Re-run step 1 after the code change.
- Commit the updated golden traces alongside the code change.
- Golden traces under `test-results/traces/golden/**` MUST be committed and MUST NOT be gitignored.

### 19.5 Failure Modes and Diagnosis

- **Missing trace.json**: The app did not expose tracing or the test ended before capture. Ensure `finalizeEvidence()` runs.
- **Trace mismatch**: Compare normalized `trace.json` between golden and evidence; check for changed action ordering or payload semantics.
- **Meta mismatch**: Confirm test name, device config, or routing expectations haven’t changed.
- **Unexpected target**: Validate routing setup via `seedUiMocks()` or routing annotations and ensure mocks are reachable.

---

## 20. Relationship to Logs

- Logs are message-oriented and human-readable
- Traces are structured and machine-oriented
- Logs may reference correlation IDs
- Traces must never depend on logs

---

## 21. Non-Goals

- Distributed tracing
- Replay or stub generation
- Compile-time transforms or Babel plugins
- Performance metrics beyond per-call duration
- Visualizations beyond raw JSON

---

## 22. Summary

Tracing provides a deterministic, causal, and test-grade record of application behavior while preserving extreme code readability.

The tracing system adapts to the codebase, not the other way around.

Commit message:

feat(tests): add unit tests for tracing and UI preferences
- Implement tests for action tracing, including action lifecycle, error handling, and implicit actions.
- Add tests for trace context management, ensuring updates and notifications work correctly.
- Create tests for trace export functionality, verifying zip blob creation and download behavior.
- Introduce tests for trace IDs, checking incrementing and resetting functionality.
- Develop tests for trace session, covering action recording, backend decisions, and error deduplication.
- Add tests for trace targets, validating behavior under different connection states and demo modes.
- Implement tests for UI preferences, ensuring list preview limits are clamped and localStorage interactions are handled correctly.

doc/tracing.md, after:

# C64 Commander – Tracing Specification

## 1. Purpose and Scope

This document defines the Tracing system for the C64 Commander Capacitor-based application (Web, Android, iOS).

Tracing provides a structured, append-only, machine-readable record of:

- Semantic user, automatic, and system actions
- Resulting REST and FTP interactions
- Backend target selection and fallback decisions
- Causality, ordering, and outcomes required for debugging and automated verification

This specification is the single source of truth for implementation, testing, and diagnostics.

Tracing is not a replacement for logs. Logs remain message-oriented and human-readable. Traces are structured and machine-oriented.

---

## 2. Design Principles

1. Always-on, rolling session
   - One in-memory trace session per app process
   - Retention limited by both time and size
   - Deterministic eviction rules

2. Zero-noise integration
   - No explicit lifecycle calls in business logic
   - No tracing-specific control flow
   - No per-line or per-call instrumentation
   - Tracing must never reduce code readability

3. Semantic focus
   - Only meaningful actions are traced
   - Low-level UI events and rendering noise are excluded

4. Strict causality
   - Every backend interaction is causally linked to exactly one action
   - Correlation is explicit and mandatory

5. Deterministic testability
   - Traces are designed for semantic assertions
   - Byte-for-byte comparison is explicitly out of scope
   - Timestamps, relative times, hostnames, ports, and IPs are non-semantic and MUST be normalized in trace comparisons

6. Safety by construction
   - Credentials are redacted at capture time
   - Sensitive data never enters the trace buffer

---

## 3. Terminology

- Trace Session  
  The rolling, in-memory collection of trace events.

- Trace Event  
  A single structured record describing one meaningful occurrence.

- Action Trace  
  A root semantic trace representing a logical operation.

- Event ID  
  A deterministic identifier uniquely identifying a single trace event.

- Correlation ID  
  A deterministic identifier linking one logical action to all downstream events.

- Origin  
  One of user, automatic, or system.

---

## 4. Trace Session Lifecycle

### 4.1 Creation

- Created automatically at app startup.

### 4.2 Retention

A trace session retains events subject to both limits:

- Maximum wall-clock window: 30 minutes
- Maximum event count: 10,000 trace events
- Maximum storage (estimated): 50 MiB

The effective retention is the smaller of the two.

Eviction is deterministic and FIFO based on event age.

### 4.3 Clearing on Restart

- All traces are cleared automatically on app restart.
- Trace sessions do not persist across process restarts.

### 4.4 Manual Clearing

- User-triggered via Settings → Diagnostics → Traces → Clear Traces
- Clears all retained events without restarting the app or trace session.

### 4.5 Programmatic Clearing

- Exposed to Playwright and test tooling
- Clears the rolling buffer without restarting the app.

---

## 5. Identifier Model

### 5.1 Event IDs

- Field: id
- Namespace: EVT-
- Format: EVT-0000

Semantics:

- Uniquely identifies a single trace event
- Monotonic and strictly increasing
- Scoped to one trace session
- Never reused

Range:

- EVT-0000 through EVT-9999

Reset Rule:

- Reset to EVT-0000 at test start via a test-only API.

---

### 5.2 Correlation IDs

- Field: correlationId
- Namespace: COR-
- Format: COR-0000

Semantics:

- Identifies exactly one logical Action Trace
- All events belonging to that action share the same correlationId
- One correlation per action
- No reuse

Range:

- COR-0000 through COR-9999

Reset Rule:

- Reset to COR-0000 at test start via a test-only API.

---

### 5.3 Allocation Rules (Common)

- Deterministic
- Sequential
- Zero-padded to fixed width (4 digits)
- No UUIDs, randomness, hashes, or timestamps
- Allocation performed by a single in-process ID provider

---

### 5.4 Stability Guarantees

- Same test + same code + same inputs produce identical IDs
- IDs must match exactly in golden trace comparison
- IDs are designed for grepability and diff stability

---

### 5.5 Explicit Non-Namespaces

The following are explicitly forbidden:

- Per-thread namespaces
- Per-component namespaces
- Per-origin namespaces
- ID reuse across sessions
- Compression or shortening at export time

---

## 6. Event Envelope

All trace events share a common envelope:

{
  "id": "EVT-00042",
  "timestamp": "ISO-8601",
  "relativeMs": 123,
  "type": "event-type",
  "origin": "user | automatic | system",
  "correlationId": "COR-00007",
  "data": {}
}

- timestamp is absolute and diagnostic
- relativeMs is milliseconds since session start and is the primary ordering key for tests

---

## 7. Action Tracing Model

### 7.1 Action Traces

An Action Trace represents one logical operation.

Each Action Trace:

- Allocates exactly one new correlationId
- Has a clear start and end
- Owns all child events
- Is never nested

Sequential actions produce sequential correlation IDs.

---

### 7.2 Action Trace Origins

Each Action Trace declares an origin:

- user
- automatic
- system

Origin is descriptive only and does not alter causality.

---

## 8. Automatic Context Enrichment

Each Action Trace automatically captures:

### 8.1 UI Context

- Current route and query parameters
- Platform (web, android, ios)
- Feature flag snapshot

### 8.2 Playback Context (when applicable)

- Playlist length
- Current index
- Current item identifier
- Playing or paused state
- Elapsed playback time

### 8.3 Device Context

- C64 device identifier
- Connection status

No explicit application code is required.

---

## 9. Scoped Sub-Traces (Optional)

For large multi-phase flows only:

```ts
await trace.scope('playlist.add', async () => {
  await scanFiles();
  await resolveSongLengths();
  await updatePlaylist();
});
```

Rules:

- Optional and rare
- One scope per logical phase
- Never deeply nested
- Never used for trivial handlers

---

## 10. Backend Target Semantics

All backend interactions explicitly declare their target:

- `internal-mock` – built into the app, demo mode
- `external-mock` – started by test infrastructure
- `real-device` – physical C64 Ultimate device

IP address and port are informational only.

---

## 11. Backend Decision Event

```json
{
  "type": "backend-decision",
  "data": {
    "selectedTarget": "internal-mock | external-mock | real-device",
    "reason": "reachable | fallback | demo-mode | test-mode"
  }
}
```

Rules:

- Exactly one per correlation
- Must precede any REST or FTP operation

---

## 12. REST Tracing

- REST tracing is transparent
- `getC64API()` returns a Proxy-wrapped client

### REST Request Event

```json
{
  "type": "rest-request",
  "data": {
    "method": "POST",
    "url": "http://host/v1/runners:sidplay",
    "normalizedUrl": "/v1/runners:sidplay",
    "headers": {
      "Authorization": "***"
    },
    "body": {},
    "target": "internal-mock | external-mock | real-device"
  }
}
```

### REST Response Event

```json
{
  "type": "rest-response",
  "data": {
    "status": 200,
    "body": {},
    "durationMs": 34,
    "error": null
  }
}
```

Rules:

- Response immediately follows its request
- Shares the same `correlationId`
- Network passwords are redacted

REST calls outside an Action Trace create implicit root Action Traces.

---

## 13. FTP Tracing

```json
{
  "type": "ftp-operation",
  "data": {
    "operation": "list | get | put | login",
    "path": "/SIDS/HVSC/file.sid",
    "result": "success | failure",
    "error": null,
    "target": "internal-mock | external-mock | real-device"
  }
}
```

Rules:

- FTP credentials are always redacted
- Semantics are equivalent to REST tracing

---

## 14. Error Handling

- Tracing never swallows errors
- Errors propagate unchanged
- Each error is recorded exactly once
- Duplicate logging is suppressed

---

## 15. Redaction Rules

### 15.1 Redacted Data

- Network passwords
- FTP credentials
- Tokens
- Android SAF and filesystem URIs

### 15.2 Timing

- Redaction occurs at capture time
- Sensitive data never enters the trace buffer

---

## 16. Storage and Export

### 16.1 Runtime Storage

- In-memory only
- No serialization on hot paths

### 16.2 Export Triggers

- Explicit user export
- Test completion
- Error scenarios

### 16.3 Export Format

ZIP archive containing:

- `trace.json`
- `app-metadata.json`

`app-metadata.json` is export-only and describes the running app/build/device context (for example: app version, platform, build identifier, and device model). It must not include test-specific fields.

Schema is stable and CI-friendly.

---

## 17. UI Integration

### 17.1 Navigation

Settings → Diagnostics → Traces

### 17.2 Presentation

- Overlay panel
- Raw JSON viewer
- Collapsible nodes
- Read-only

### 17.3 Controls

- Clear Traces
- Share / Export

---

## 18. Playwright Integration

### 18.1 Exposed APIs

- `clearTraces()`
- `getTraces()`

### 18.2 Assertion Strategy

Tests assert:

- Presence of expected events
- Correct ordering
- Correct targets
- Correct payload semantics

ID-related notes:

- Tests MUST assert exact EVT-* and COR-* identifiers
- ID reset MUST occur before each test via test-only API
- Golden trace normalization MUST NOT ignore IDs

### 18.3 Strict Mode

- Optional per-test strictness
- Global override supported

### 18.4 Trace Assertion Opt-In Model

Trace assertions are **explicit opt-in** by default. Tests must call the Playwright helper to enable them:

```ts
enableTraceAssertions(testInfo);
```

Optional per-test strictness:

```ts
enableTraceAssertions(testInfo, { strict: true });
```

Opt-out (only needed when a global default is enabled):

```ts
disableTraceAssertions(testInfo, 'Reason for excluding this test');
```

**Configuration sources and precedence:**

1. **Per-test annotation** via `enableTraceAssertions()` / `disableTraceAssertions()` (highest precedence)
2. **Environment defaults**
   - `TRACE_ASSERTIONS_DEFAULT=1` → treat all tests as trace-enabled unless explicitly opted out
   - `TRACE_STRICT=1` → strict ordering enabled unless explicitly disabled per-test

**Enforcement:**

All trace assertion helpers call the opt-in guard. If a test is not opted in, helpers throw with a message describing how to enable tracing. This prevents silent partial coverage.

### 18.5 Trace Assertion Helpers

Canonical helpers live in [playwright/traceUtils.ts](playwright/traceUtils.ts) and are the only supported API for trace assertions:

- `clearTraces(page)`
  - Clears the in-memory trace buffer in the running app.

- `getTraces(page)`
  - Returns the current trace events as JSON.

- `assertRestTraceSequence(testInfo, events, matcher, expectedTypes?)`
  - Asserts a REST request exists and is ordered correctly within its `correlationId`.
  - Defaults to: `action-start → backend-decision → rest-request → rest-response → action-end`.

- `expectRestTraceSequence(page, testInfo, matcher, expectedTypes?)`
  - Polls until the REST trace sequence exists, then returns the matched events.

- `assertFtpTraceSequence(testInfo, events, predicate?, expectedTypes?)`
  - Asserts an FTP operation exists and is ordered correctly within its `correlationId`.
  - Defaults to: `action-start → backend-decision → ftp-operation → action-end`.

- `expectFtpTraceSequence(page, testInfo, predicate?, expectedTypes?)`
  - Polls until the FTP trace sequence exists, then returns the matched events.

- `assertTraceOrder(testInfo, events, expectedTypes?)`
  - Asserts ordering within a single correlation. Strict mode requires exact sequence.

- `findTraceEvent(events, type, predicate?)`
  - Convenience locator for a single event.

- `findRestRequest(events, matcher)` / `findFtpOperation(events, predicate?)`
  - Convenience helpers for event lookup.

**What helpers assert by default:**

- Event ordering within the same `correlationId`
- Presence of required semantic events
- Backend target/decision can be asserted by the test (when stable)

**What helpers do not assert:**

- Absolute timestamps
- Durations
- Byte-for-byte equality of payloads

**Correlation boundaries:**

All ordering assertions are scoped to a single `correlationId`. Tests must never mix events from multiple actions.

### 18.6 Scaling Strategy to 50% Coverage

Selection criteria:

- Prefer tests that already trigger REST/FTP calls (e.g., config changes, disk mounts, playback actions).
- Prefer tests with deterministic backend behavior (mock server, stable routes).

Order of migration:

1. Playback + disk management flows
2. Settings flows that call `/v1/info` or `/v1/configs`
3. FTP-based selection flows (list/open)
4. Demo-mode transitions that hit discovery or config endpoints

Patterns to avoid (brittle):

- Asserting full trace equality inside test code
- Asserting absolute timestamps or durations
- Asserting every event in high-volume sequences (e.g., rapid sliders)
- Coupling trace assertions to UI-only flows with no backend side effects

Rules for when **not** to add trace assertions:

- Visual-only or layout-only tests
- Coverage-only or probe-only tests
- Empty placeholder specs

---

## 19. Golden Trace Recording

### 19.1 Purpose

Golden traces capture a deterministic, reviewable baseline of expected traces for local verification and CI parity.

### 19.2 Local Build Integration

#### Execution

`build` exposes a trace recording mode:

- `--record-traces`
- Optional overrides:
  - `--trace-output-dir <path>` (default: `playwright/fixtures/traces/golden`)
  - `--trace-suite <name>` (scope recording to a Playwright project or test tag)

Equivalent environment variables:

- `RECORD_TRACES=1`
- `TRACE_OUTPUT_DIR=<path>`
- `TRACE_SUITE=<name>`

When enabled, Playwright runs in trace-recording mode and exports:

- `trace.json` for each test
- `meta.json` (Playwright evidence metadata) as the canonical per-test manifest

Recording mode MUST NOT alter application behavior or timing.

#### Files

Each `test-results/evidence/playwright/<testId>/<deviceId>` folder contains:

- `trace.json`
- `meta.json`

`meta.json` provides test name, project, timestamp, and file path context. Trace recording MUST reuse this file instead of generating a second manifest.

`app-metadata.json` is not part of Playwright evidence. If present in exported archives, it is ignored for golden trace comparison.

| Concept            | Scope        | Ownership   | Included in Golden Comparison | Purpose |
|--------------------|--------------|-------------|-------------------------------|---------|
| trace.json         | Per test     | Tracing     | Yes                           | Semantic, causal record of app behavior |
| meta.json          | Per test     | Playwright  | No                            | Test identity, project, device, and outcome |
| app-metadata.json  | Per export   | Tracing     | No                            | App, build, platform, and device context |

### 19.3 Fault-Tolerant Trace Comparison (Essentials Only)

Golden comparison intentionally ignores ordering and timing noise. The goal is to verify **essential behavior**:
for a given user action, the app must issue specific REST/FTP calls and receive specific responses.

Core rules:

- **Action-level matching**: traces are grouped by `correlationId`, and each group is labeled by its
  `action-start` name. Comparison is done per action group, not by global event order.
- **Order-insensitive**: non-essential events can reorder freely. Only the existence of required REST/FTP
  interactions matters.
- **Partial response matching**: response bodies are compared as *subsets*. Expected keys/values must exist,
  but extra keys in actual responses are allowed.

Normalization rules (applied before comparison):

- Ignore volatile fields: `timestamp`, `relativeMs`, `durationMs`, `elapsedMs`, and other time-like keys.
- Normalize URLs by stripping host/port.
- Normalize host/IP/port fields in any nested data.
- Ignore host headers (e.g., `Host`, `X-C64U-Host`).

What must match:

- `action-start` name (for trace groups that contain REST/FTP activity)
- REST requests: method + normalized URL
- REST responses: HTTP status + body subset
- FTP operations: operation + path + result (and error subset if present)

Meta normalization for `meta.json` is not used in golden trace comparison.

### 19.4 Developer Workflow (Step-by-Step)

1. **Record golden traces locally**

  ```bash
  ./build --test-e2e --record-traces --trace-suite tracing
  ```

  Or use direct env variables:

  ```bash
  RECORD_TRACES=1 TRACE_SUITE=tracing npm run test:e2e
  ```

1. **Review generated files**

- Evidence (always written):
  - `test-results/evidence/playwright/<testId>/<deviceId>/trace.json`
  - `test-results/evidence/playwright/<testId>/<deviceId>/meta.json`
- Golden traces:
  - `playwright/fixtures/traces/golden/<suite>/<testId>/<deviceId>/trace.json`

1. **Validate against goldens**

  ```bash
  npm run validate:traces
  ```

  You can override the golden directory:

  ```bash
  TRACE_GOLDEN_DIR=/path/to/golden npm run validate:traces
  ```

1. **Update goldens when behavior changes intentionally**

- Re-run step 1 after the code change.
- Commit the updated golden traces alongside the code change.
- Golden traces under `playwright/fixtures/traces/golden/**` MUST be committed and MUST NOT be gitignored.
- When trace assertions are enabled and `RECORD_TRACES` is not set, Playwright tests fail if a golden trace
  is missing or essential REST/FTP interactions do not match.

### 19.5 Failure Modes and Diagnosis

- **Missing trace.json**: The app did not expose tracing or the test ended before capture. Ensure `finalizeEvidence()` runs.
- **Trace mismatch**: Compare normalized `trace.json` between golden and evidence; check for changed action ordering or payload semantics.
- **Meta mismatch**: Confirm test name, device config, or routing expectations haven’t changed.
- **Unexpected target**: Validate routing setup via `seedUiMocks()` or routing annotations and ensure mocks are reachable.

---

## 20. Relationship to Logs

- Logs are message-oriented and human-readable
- Traces are structured and machine-oriented
- Logs may reference correlation IDs
- Traces must never depend on logs

---

## 21. Non-Goals

- Distributed tracing
- Replay or stub generation
- Compile-time transforms or Babel plugins
- Performance metrics beyond per-call duration
- Visualizations beyond raw JSON

---

## 22. Summary

Tracing provides a deterministic, causal, and test-grade record of application behavior while preserving extreme code readability.

The tracing system adapts to the codebase, not the other way around.
